#
"NULL: HELP IMPERSONATION WAS NOT SHOWING UP, I ASSUME BECAUSE"

of the way the help engine works, the first entry is simply dumped.
This extra help topic in the first position eliminates that defect.
The keyword line is the way it is, so that no one in the game will
see this.

#
IMPERSONATION IMPERSONATE 

This is pretty simple.  Only an immortal (level 101 and up) may identify
themselves as such.  If you do this and are not what you say you are, the
punishment will be severe and final, and will most likely include deletion
of any characters involved.

An important note: DO NOT give your password to ANYONE who asks for it.
If someone who calls themselves a god asks for it, even if they are a god,
don't give it out.

If you have done all that you know of to verify they are actually a god,
and they still say they need your password even after you declined to give
it, tell them the last line in help impersonate says not to give it out,
and you were told to tell them that.  Do not give out your password.

See Also: PASSWORD, RULES, IMMORTAL, MULTI, ROUTER

#
TARGET TARGETTING 

There are two situations when you might need to target a certain
mob or player out of others in a room.  For instance, if you are
in a room with three mobs whose keyword is 'corpse', and you want
to target the second 'corpse', you will type 'kill 2.corpse'.  The
first corpse in that room will be 1.corpse, the middle 2.corpse,
and the last will be 3.corpse.

The second instance where this may be necessary is if you are in a
room that has a mob who shares a keyword with a player name.  For
instance, suppose you are in Stonewich and a player named 'Enforce'
is in the room with you and the Enforcer mob.  To target the player
'Enforce', you will type kill 0.enforce.  This will ensure that you
hit the player instead of the mob.

Note:     When targeting a player, you may abbreviate the player's
          name.  For example, 'kill 0.enfor' will target the player
          named 'Enforce'.  However, when targeting a specific mob,
          you must type out the full keyword, e.g. you must type
          'kill 2.corpse' and not 'kill 2.cor'.

Syntax:   kill 1.keyword
          kill 0.player

See Also: KILL

#
HOUSERULES "HOUSE RULES" "DC HOUSE RULES" DCHOUSERULES 

Since time immemorial, player vs. player combat has been a large
part of life on Dark Castle.  While some may not enjoy it, there
are those who have strove to become the best of the best in the
art of player-killing.  It is in the spirit of pure PK that we
give to you the "Dark Castle House Rules of Player-Killing".

The object of the following set of rules is to provide a sense of
sportsmanship between those denizens of the DC realms who enjoy
the art and sport of player vs. player combat.  It will provide
a groundwork of basic rules which, those who wish to participate,
will follow in all of their player-killing.

On to the Dark Castle House Rules of Player-Killing!

Rule 1:  One must never recall from a pfight.  While
         recalling is prohibited, fleeing is not.  As many know, there
         may be multiple reasons why one would do so- to set an ambush,
         to make another backstab attempt, to heal.  Even if one flees
         from a fight simply to escape, all player-killers know that
         both the arts of hunting and evasion require skill.  Recalling
         to avoid death, however, requires no skill at all.

Rule 2:  One must never indulge in "one hp safe room kills".  One may
         continue to hunt their target, even after the target has died,
         as long as one tick of regeneration time is given. There is no
         sport in killing one's opponent when they don't even have the
         movement points to run.  Obviously, this rule prohibits ping-
         ponging (help pingpong).

Rule 3:  One should refrain from spam stunning their opponents after they
         have died.  For example:  After player X has been player-killed,
         they leave the tavern without regenrating and attempt to stun
         player Y, dying repeatedly in an effort to wear down player Y's
         HPs and kill them.

If you wish to play by the Dark Castle House Rules, please designate that
you are doing so by putting '@' in your title.  This way all who wish
to follow these gentlemen's rules of combat will know if their opponent
is also.

Please Note: Nobody can or will be forced to follow these rules of combat.
             These rules are simply "gentlemen's rules" for those who wish
             to abide by them.  It is up to those who follow the DC House
             RULES to make sure that they themselves do not break any of
             the above rules.

Let the battle begin!

See Also: PKILL, PINGPONG

#
GUIDE "NEWBIE GUIDE" 

Some denizens of Dark Castle have volunteered to be Newbie Guides.
These helpful citizens can be differentiated from the masses by the
"(Guide)" title before their name.  If you are new to Dark Castle,
please feel free to ask anyone who is designated as a Guide for help.

To see which Newbie Guides are currently logged in, simply type
'who guide'.

See Also: NEWBIE EQUIPMENT, NEWBIE MONEY, NEWBIE COMMUNICATION,
          RECALL, RULES, NEWBIE AREAS, WWW, SLANG, GETTING STARTED,
          HELP, NEWBIE

#
POTATO "POTATO ARENA" POTATOARENA 

The Potato Arena is a special game in which people run around a
designated area and try to give each other a 'hot potato', which
explodes and pkills whoever is holding it after a random amount
of time.

How the game works:
-Wandering through the Potato Patch are a group of potato farmers
 who are more than willing to give you a nice hot potato.
-These farmers will randomly hand out potatos that are already set
 to explode.  If you the impatient type and want a potato, simply
 say 'May I have a potato?' in the same room as a farmer, and he'll
 give you one.
-Your newly received potato will explode in a random amount of time.
 The object of the game is to then pass off any hot potatos you receive
 before they explode in your hands, thus eliminating you from the game.
-The last person standing is the winner!

Rules:  1. Normal "killing" of another PC is disabled in a Potato Arena.
           The only permitted type of killing is with a hot potato.
        2. The following skills have also been disabled while in the
           Potato Arena: sneak, hide, bard songs, and all magic.
        3. When someone passes a hot potato off to you, you will receive
           a small bit of lag to deter any automated 'give-backs'.
        4. There is a 10% chance that you will drop a potato when trying
           to pass it to someone else.
        5. All active hot potatos in your inventory will vanish upon
           leaving the arena.

See Also: ARENA, PKILL

#
AGE 

As your character on Dark Castle ages, you will notice that age has an
effect on its regeneration rates.  As you grow older and wiser, your mana
and ki regen will increase slightly.  Conversely, beyond a certain point
in the aging process, your hitpoint and movement regen will begin to slow
slightly as the years begin to catch up with your body.

See Also: SCORE, REGEN, ATTRIBUTES

#
AFK AFW 

AFK: This term means "away from keyboard".  A player character will use
     this slang term to tell people that she is not at her computer, and
     may be doing other things that may or may not be mud related.

AFW: This term means "away from window".  A player character will use this
     slang term to tell people that he is currently in another window and
     is not seeing the client window for Dark Castle.

Note: There are also socials associated with both of these terms, which
      the player character may type to echo a message to all of the other
      player characters in his or room, informing them that he is not
      currently at the keyboard or at the window.

Syntax: afk or afw

See Also: SLANG

#
REQUISITE REQUISITES "ASSOCIATED STATS" "ASSOCIATED ATTRIBUTES" 

Every skill, spell, song, and ability on Dark Castle has two
attributes associated with it.  For example, the "kick" skill has
a primary requisite of "DEX" and a secondary requisite of "STR".
Thus, for a character to maximize their potential "kick" ability,
they would want to improve (meta) their dexterity and strength.

In order to maximize your character's potential in a given skill,
improving your primary and secondary requisites is a must.

An ability improves approximately 2.5 points out of 100 for every
point over 20 in a primary requisite and approximately 1 point out
of 100 for every point over 20 in a secondary requisite.  Skills
that are unique to your class have the potential to reach "Masterful",
whereas skills that your character possesses that are shared with
another class can be learned to varying degrees, usually between
average and superb.

Each class has a diversity of requisites, with at least 1 or 2
primary requisites from every attribute.  This means that different
races will be better at different areas of each class.  Obviously,
the general "theme" of a class remains intact -- meaning mages still
have a great many "INT" based skills, barbarians have many "STR"
based skills, thieves have many "DEX" based skills, and so on.

One further note: losing an attribute point as a result of death can
affect the level to which you have learned your skills.  For example,
if you had improved your dexterity to a point that allowed perfecting
of your kick skill and then died and lost a point of dexterity, your
kick ability, as well as any dexterity based skills, could well be
affected.

See Also: LEARN, SKILLS, ATTRIBUTES, RACES, CLASSES, AUTOIMPROVE
          STAT LOSS, RDEATH

#
"STAT LOSS" "CON DEATH" "DEX DEATH" CONDEATH DEXDEATH 

Beginning at level 20, you have a chance to lose one of your
stats when you die at the hands of a mob.  For most races,
except trolls, the main stat loss is in constitution.  However,
there is also a small chance that you will lose another stat in
addition to the stat you've already lost.  The higher the level
of mob you die to, the higher the odds of losing a stat are.
Ie. You lose one CON point and one point of WIS.

When your character, except trolls, drops to a four constitution,
the character will be permanately deleted.  The slang term for
this is 'condeath'.

Trolls, on the other hand, primarily lose dexterity at rdeath.
If they reach a four dexterity, they will turn to stone, which
renders the character permanently deleted.

See Also: ATTRIBUTES, RDEATH, REQUISITES, DEATH TRAP

#
"DEATH TRAP" DEATHTRAP DT 

During your adventures, you may stumble upon an unfortunate, but
essential, facet of life in Dark Castle: the Death Trap.

A death trap, or DT as it is often called, is a room that may
contain any number of extremely hostile mobiles that are virtually
100% guaranteed to kill you. There generally aren't any exits
or readily available escape paths from such traps.

Death traps may be found either built into certain areas
throughout the realms of Dark Castle, or perhaps constructed
by nefarious mortals.  Death traps that are a designed part of
an area (meaning not made by a player moving mobs) will generally
be accompanied by some kind of warning in description of the rooms
adjacent to the trap.  These traps are also generally, though not
exclusively, found in higher level areas.

Note: An example of a death trap (that won't in fact rkill
      you) may be found in the arena. On the bottom floor
      of the arena there is a room without any exits that
      contains Mothra, Godzilla, and Gamera.  This is a
      "fun" example of the death traps that you may stumble
      into on DC if you aren't careful.

See Also: REALKILL, DEATH, STAT LOSS

#
ROUTER SHARED GATEWAY "SHARED IP" "SHARED LINK" NETWORK "HOME NETWORK" 

There have been an increase in the number of DC players who participate
from a computer lab, shared link, or router with friends or other
players.  Because this can infringe upon the "help MULTI" rules,
there are the following guidelines and stipulations should you wish
to play from a shared link.

1) *All* persons who are playing via any kind of shared link or
   IP, even if the actual IPs are not identical, are responsible for
   registering with the immortal staff.  A log and registry of these
   players will be kept in order to prevent abuse of the system.

2) BOTH players MUST be at the keyboard and active.  This means
   you can't have one person on autojoin who is watching porn
   while the other person leads the group.

3) Differing from "help MULTI", extended AFK when more than
   one connection is linked to the game is ILLEGAL.
   This means you can NOT have someone sitting idle in tavern
   for hours on end if there is another person from your link
   playing.

4) It is the responsibility of the PLAYER to monitor and be aware
   who is connected from your router/IP.  Yes, it may theoretically
   be possible that someone else at your school or lab may play DC
   without you knowing about it, but the likelyhood is very slim.

The bottom line is, while the Immortal staff does not want to limit
the number of potential players playing the game, we also WILL
enforce the rules and ensure that multiplaying is not occurring.
Again, it is the responsibility of registered shared link players
to monitor their simultaneous activity to make sure it complies with
policy. Please enjoy the game and follow what small rules there are.

See Also: RULES, MULTI, LINK, BOT

#
IMMUNE SUSCEPT SUSCEPTIBLE RESIST 

Immune: Mobiles on Dark Castle can be immune to all types of damage,
        whether magical, physical, spiritual, or vocal. When a mob
        is immune to an attack, either the attack will not register
        the damage, or the attack is simply brushed off and ignored.

Susceptible: Both mobiles and players can be susceptible to certain
             kinds of attacks, thereby causing increased damage. For
             player characters, if your 'Save Vs. X' percentage falls
             into the negative, then you become susceptible to that
             kind of damage.

Resist: As with susceptibility, both mobiles and players have the
        ability to resist certain kinds of attacks, thereby reducing
        that attack's damage. For player characters, the 'Save vs X'
        number on 'score' represents your % chance of resisting that
        kind of damage.

See Also: SAVES

#
EVASION "INNATE EVASION" 

Due to their magical nature, pixies have the ability to evade
magical scrying for a time.

This innate skill is only useable once per day.

Syntax:   innate evasion

See Also: CLASSES, RACES, INNATES

#
FOCUS "INNATE FOCUS" 

As a result of the natural aptitude towards wisdom and intelligence,
elves have the ability, once per day, to focus their mind to extremely
high levels.  During this short time they will not lose concentration
on whatever spell, ki ability, or song they wish to use.

This innate skill is only useable once per day.

Syntax:   innate focus

See Also: CLASSES, RACES, INNATES

#
ILLUSION "INNATE ILLUSION" 

Because of their diminutive and shy nature, gnomes can employ their
natural cleverness and magics to fool would-be assailants.  For a
short period of time, they can make themselves invisible to those
around them.  While they will be visible in combat, their invisibility
will return between each round and at the end of combat.

This innate skill is only useable once per day.

Syntax:   innate illusion

See Also: CLASSES, RACES, INNATES

#
BLOODLUST "INNATE BLOODLUST" 

Orcs have the ability to increase the amount of damage
they can deal for a short duration of time.

This innate skill is only useable once per day.

Syntax:   innate bloodlust

See Also: CLASSES, RACES, INNATES

#
POWERWIELD "INNATE POWERWIELD" 

Ogres have the ability to periodically wield weapons of any
weight or size in both hands, thus allowing them to do a great
deal more damage.

This innate skill is only useable once per day.

Syntax:   innate powerwield

See Also: CLASSES, RACES, INNATES

#
"BATMAN FOREVER" BATMAN 

Batman Forever is the 2nd bomb sequel of Batman.  In this one, Batman has
to fight off the Riddler and Two Face.  Of course, the Riddler is created
in the movie just like every other movie based on a comic.  Robin is
introduced in the movie series in this one, and when you first see him,
he's wearing tight spandex!  Dr. Chase is Batman's new love in this
sequel.  Her name is Chase cuz she chases after Batman.  I thought she
was Dr. Chaste because she never was in a sex scene in the entire movie,
but she wore all these exposing clothes, if they are clothes.

The plot:

Oki, it starts off with Mr. E showing Bruce round the factory, and some
loser asks Bruce to sponsor some project that makes you feel like you
are in the TV.  Bruce says Fuck, no, well those weren't his exact words,
but I'm sure that was what he meant.  What's his face then seduces, I
mean, knocks out Mr. Enigma, sux out his brain power, and kills Enigma.
Yipee.  According to the tapes though, Enigma committed suicide.  Then
Bruce goes off on his very first date with Dr. Chase to the very
romantic circus.  Two Face is there and slightly off sets the romantic
setting with machine guns and a mob of bad guys.  He also has some bomb,
that Robin throws out, but he's not Robin yet, and his family died,
with a splat.  Then Robin stayed in Bruce's house for a while.  Robin
was gonna leave, but Bruce stopped him by offering him one of his toys.
So Robin stayed.  He found the Batmobile in the Batcave using the
secret Batdoor, and the Batcomputer noticed because Batsecurity System
was tripped by Robin.  It shouted Intruder Alert, but didn't do
anything, just like car alarms.  So Robin took the Batmobile for a
spin, found a mob who was harrassing some girl, he saved her, beat the
crap out of the mob, and kissed the girl.  Then an even bigger mob came,
armed with cheapo plastic flashlights.  Of course, Robin panicked,
because he knew that if there were 5000 dogs could easily kill a level
fifty player, so he ran away, and Batman saved him from the mob of
scary people.  Robin blamed Batman.  Then nothing of importance
happened, except Dr. Chase was kidnapped, and Batman and Robin (in
Rubbermaid armor) went off to save her, blah blah blah.  That's the end
of the movie, except for some pointless very pathetic scene where
Batman and Robin ran, whoopee.

See Also: BANANAS, LACTAID

#
LACTAID 

Lactaid (pronounced lact-aid) is some type of medicine that contains
lactase (pronounced lack-taze).  Lactase is an enzyme that digests
lactose (pronounced lack-tose), which is found in dairy products.  Some
people don't have lactaid, so the bacteria in their colons digests the
lactose.  The bacteria then produces hydrogen sulfate, in other words,
they fart.

See Also: BATMAN, BANANAS

#
BANANA BANANAS 

Bananas are yellow fruits, and are best when they are yellow.  First they
start off green, then yellow (which is the time to eat em), then brown
(which is the time to use them for something like cake).  When man first
studied this fruit, it occurred to him, How the heck do you get the banana
inside the peel?  This question is still debated today.  There are many
theories how the banana gets inside the peel.

One theory is that the banana actually comes in a tube (like the ones
toothpaste come in) and feels like toothpaste.  Then they take an empty
peel, and squeeze the actual banana into the peel, and then seal the peel
by gluing it together with a rare type of glucose.

Another theory is that the banana comes in a liquid form, and is put into
the peel, then frozen.  It becomes moist later, after about ten years.

A not-so-well-known fact about bananas is that there is a part of them
that can be smoked to provide a significant high.  By peeling the banana
and then scraping the inside layer of the peel, one can get enough
scrapings of that layer to gather together and put out in the sun to dry.
Once dry, these scrapings can be wrapped and smoked to provide a high
similar to that of smoking pot.

See Also: LACTAID, BATMAN

#
INNATE INNATES "RACIAL ABILITIES" 

The many races of adventurers in Dark Castle come from very different
and varying backgrounds from those of humans.  Many of the races have
ancestral skills that have been learned through the centuries in order
for the race to advance and thrive.  Innate abilities can be used with
the "innate" command.

Humans:   Can wear equipment of any size.
Pixies:   Periodic ability to evade magical scrying.
Hobbits:  Periodic ability to evade portals.
Dwarves:  Periodic ability to repair equipment.
Orcs:     Periodic ability to use bloodlust.
Ogres:    Periodic ability to dual wield two-handed weapons.
Trolls:   Periodic ability to increase their hit point regeneration.
Gnomes:   Periodic ability to make themselves invisible.
Elves:    Periodic ability to focus their concentration.

Syntax:   innate [skill]

See Also: RACE

#
PUSH PULL CLIMB ASSEMBLE SET ITEMS OBJECTS 

Some objects on the mud can be made to do things or react by being
manipulated physically.  Several of these items may not be visible as
an 'object' as one normally seems them.

Play, explore, discover, enjoy.

#
COMMANDS 

Eventually by typing 'commands' you will get a listing of all the commands
that are available to players to use.  However, enabling this command is a
relatively low priority if you have any command questions feel free to ask
an immortal or type: help <command name>.

See Also: KEYWORDS, ABBREVIATION

#
ABBREVIATE ABBREVIATION 

In general, you may abbreviate many things you type as you explore the
world.

Specifically, you may abbreviate:
     commands
     names of living beings (ie, players and mobs)
     spells
     directions (either as arguments, or commands)

But not names of items or objects, or helpfile topics
(unless the help topic has been specifically setup to allow a logical
sounding abbreviation, such as PFE for PROTECTION FROM EVIL)

For example:
     If the long version of a command is:
     cast 'invisibility' tarrasque

     "cast" is the command, " 'invisibility' " is the spell,
     and "tarrasque" is an argument (name of mob in this case)

     you can abbreviate this to:
     ca 'invis' tarr
----------------------------------

Example 2:
     If the long version of a command is:
     cast 'invisibility' carton
     "carton" is an argument (name of an item in this case)

     you can abbreviate this with:
     ca 'invisi' carton
but not
     ca 'invisi' cart
----------------------------------

Example 3:
     If the long version of a command is:
     enter tent
     "enter" is the command,
     and "tent" is an argument (name of an object in this case)

     you can abbreviate this with:
     ent tent
but not
     enter ten   or   ent te
----------------------------------

Example 4:
     If the long version of a command is:
     help protection from evil
     "help" is the command,
     and "protection from evil" is an argument
     (name of a help topic in this case)

     you can abbreviate this with:
     h pfe         (pfe is a logical sounding abbrevation for it.)
but not
     h protec       which would result in:
                   There is no help on that word.
----------------------------------

Example 5:
A common trick that people play on newbies is that they tell the newbie
that they can get help from the meta guy by going to the meta shop and
saying "hi" to the meta guy by typing: "hi meta".

Note that "hi" in the command position is an abbreviation for "hit"
this would result in the newbie attempting to hit a mob named meta.

Not a good idea.
Though if you fall for this trick, the likely result in the big picture
should be simple embarrasment and nothing more, as you probably did not
leave a corpse when you died.  (I would like to think that newbies level
10 and higher do not fall for this trick.)
----------------------------------

Example 6:
     look north
and
     north
can both be abbreviated as:
     l n
and
     l

See Also: KEYWORDS

#
HARRASS HARRASSMENT HARASS 

Although Dark Castle is pretty much a free-for-all (would you believe some
muds won't let you swear on gossip?) some things are unacceptable.  These
include, but are not limited to: spamming (on ANY channel), pingponging
(see help pingpong), and using pray for any use other than what it was
intended for.  If you make an extreme jerkoff of yourself (via sexually
harassing players, for example, or gossiping racist and unconstructive,
seriously offensive remarks) a god may tell you to stop.
If you do not, they have the right to discipline you as they see fit.

See Also: RULES

#
HOWL 

Howl has two separate effects. The first is to cause charmies to break
free of their charm. The second is a minimal amount of damage to the
mob, but only if the mob is charmable. It has no effect on players.

#
WEIGHT 

At this time the only affect weight has on characters is maybe their egos.
(you tubby bitch)

#
HEIGHT SIZE SIZES 

The height of a player determines what size(s) of equipment he or she can
fit into.  The size a person may wear is determined by this chart:

12-41     = Small sizes only
42-65     = Small or medium sizes
66-77     = Medium sizes only
78-101    = Medium or large sizes
102-131   = Large sizes only

Large Only Races:   Ogre, Troll
Medium-Large Races: Elf, Orc
Medium Races:       Human (humans can wear equipment of any size)
Medium-Small Races: Dwarf, Gnome
Small Only Races:   Pixie, Hobbit

Some magical items can affect your height and as such, what items you could
wear.

#
SPARKS 

The recipient of this spell will incur damage from a blinding hot
shower of sparks burning their body.

See Also: SPELLS

#
SLEEP 

Sleep has two uses on Dark Castle:
1. You can sleep to regenerate your hitpoints, mana, and movement.
   Once asleep, you will not be able to rouse yourself for a short
   period of time due to the weariness your daily battles imparts
   upon you.
2. A spell which is offensive and puts the person it is cast upon
   to sleep if successful.  The amount of time the victim will
   sleep for is dependent on the caster's level.

Syntax:   cast 'sleep' <person>

A person who has been put to sleep with the spell can only be
awakened if attacked or sometimes if stolen from.  A person who
is under the affects of a paralysis spell is more difficult to sleep.

See Also: SLEEPING, SPELLS, PARALYZE

#
RELEASE 

The release command is used to 'release' a spell that you are
currently affected by.

This command cannot be used to release any harmful spells that
you may be affected by.

This skill must be practiced at the Skill Master.

Syntax:   release <spell>

See Also: CONSIDER, SWITCH, SCAN

#
SOULDRAIN "SOUL DRAIN" 

The ancient art of Souldrain is an extremely powerful spell
that benefits the caster greatly.  When an opponent's soul
(mana) is drained, the caster will gain a portion of the
opponent's soul (mana).

Syntax:   cast 'souldrain' <victim>

See Also: VAMPIRIC TOUCH, ENERGY DRAIN, LIFE LEECH

#
ENERGYDRAIN "ENERGY DRAIN" 

This spell is only castable by mobiles.  If the victim fails their
'save vs. magc', a portion of their experience will be drained.

See Also: SOUL DRAIN, VAMPIRIC TOUCH, LIFE LEECH

#
FARSIGHT 

This gives the player the ability to increase how far they can see
into adjacent rooms when scanning.

See Also: CLASSES, SPELLS, SKILLS

#
FREEFLOAT 

This spell makes the caster unaffected by spells which shake the
ground or cause them to lose their footing.  Note that this does not
bestow the ability to fly.

#
FROSTSHIELD 

Players with this spell affecting them are surrounded by a magical field
which allows them a chance of deflecting their opponent's blows with
magical ice and frost.

#
INSOMNIA 

Is a medical condition referring to when you can't sleep.

It is also an affect on Dark Castle that can cause your character to be
unable to sleep. This isn't good in most cases, but a plus is that when
someone is trying to MAKE you sleep, they can't.

#
REFLECT 

This spell makes it so that offensive spells may be bounced off the
target and onto the caster ("I'm rubber and you're glue!").

#
SHADOWSLIP "INNATE SHADOWSLIP" 

Hobbits have the innate ability of periodically making themselves
unable to be targetted by portals or astral gateways.

This innate skill is only useable once per day.

Syntax:   innate shadowslip

See Also: CLASSES, RACES, INNATES

#
SOLIDITY 

A mobile or player affected by solidity will be unaffected by any
magic which attempts to change their location, or make them move
to a different room. (for example: teleport or recall)

#
STABILITY 

When affected by stability, a player will be very difficult to
shove, bash, or otherwise push over.

#
STAUNCHBLOOD 

This spell provides the affected player or mobile with an
extraordinary amount of sanguine strength.
They will be unaffected by toxic substances.

#
ARROWENCHANTMENTS "ARROW ENCHANTMENTS" 

Rangers are able to enchant their long pointy things with several
different spells as they get higher and higher in level.  The uses of
these enchantments vary, and are known only to the rangers themselves
after long months of practice.

#
ARCHERY FIRE 

Archery is the taking of long pointy things, and propelling them at
someone you don't like with another long pointy thing with a string
attached to it.  These things are often called 'bows and arrows', but
we try to stay away from such obscure names.  This skill is best
performed by rangers, though some other classes have access to it.
The range of a propelled long pointy thing is currently one room.
To successfully propel long pointy things, a player must be holding
an object capable of propelling long pointy things.  (S)He must be
wearing a quiver that has long pointy things in it.

Syntax:   fire (direction) [enchantment] (target)

(direction) being in which direction you would like the long pointy
things propelled.  North, South, etc.

[enchantment]s are spells that a ranger can use on an arrow to
radically enhance its performance.  These are optional, and cost
the ranger a substantial amount of mental energy.  Different spells
do different things.

(target) is the he/she/it that you don't like, and wish to propel
long pointy things at.

CAUTION:  Children under the age of 16 should not be allowed to use
long pointy things without adult supervision.

See Also: QUIVER, BOW, ARROW, ARROWENCHANTMENTS

#
QUIVER 

Archery:
A quiver is an item used to hold arrows, or, as they are more commonly
called, long pointy things.  For use in archery, they must be worn
either 'about body' or 'on waist'.  They generally work better if they
are filled with these long pointy things for propelling at a later time.

See Also: ARROW, BOW, ARCHERY, ARROWENCHANTMENTS

Monks:
This ancient ritual allows a monk to emit vibrations that will severly
damage their opponent, rending a full half of their life force from them.
Due to its immense power, it costs the monk using it a significant amount
of ki, and no objects can be held while performing the action. This skill
can only be used once every 12 (mud) hours.

Syntax:   quiver <target>
          quiver (while in combat)

See Also: SKILLS, MONK, ARCHERY, RANGER, BOW

#
ARROW "LONG POINTY THING" 

A long pointy thing (occasionally called an 'arrow') is what you
propel at people you do not like.  They can cause large amounts of
damage, splinters, broken fingernails, and death.  Having these long
pointy things propelled at you is generally annoying. The damage
they are capable of inflicting depends on the make and quality of the
long pointy thing, as well as any enchantments currently cast on it.

See Also: QUIVER, BOW, ARCHERY, ARROWENCHANTMENTS

#
BOW 

Often called 'long pointy things with a string attached' we will refer
to them as 'bows' to reduce confusion.  These are what you use to
propel long pointy things at people you do not like.  They must be
held to use them.  Bows of high quality often help make the long
pointy things (arrows) more annoying.

See Also: "LONG POINTY THINGS", QUIVER, ARCHERY, ARROWENCHANTMENTS

#
"CREATE GOLEM" GOLEM GOLEMSCORE 

Over the ages, mages have learned the art of creating artificial
life using the a wide array of magical components.  This art
is an extremely difficult one to master and requires many years of
extensive study and hard work.  This spell is so completely draining
on the caster, that it requires certain items as reagents for the
spell.  Suggestions for possible components can be gleaned from the
wisdom of the Mage's Guildmaster. Once a golem is created it remains
tied to its master and its spirit can be "released" to a pocket dimension
until called upon again.  Each casting to call upon or create a golem
requires the mage have all the correct components in their inventory.

The successful creation of a golem creates a strong magical creature
loyal only to its creator.  While this golem is unable to combat other
well known denizens of the realms (players) they have no difficulty
applying a savage beating to any creatures the mage may encounter (mobs).
There are even stories of some rare essences with special magical
abilities that can further enhance a golem beyond its normal scope.

Once a golem has been created it is linked to the mage and will
unfailingly follow orders. The mage will also be unable to rid itself
of the bond with its golem unless it is slain or released by the mage
themself. If a golem is released it retains any equipment it was wearing
at the time as well as any experience it has gained.  If a golem is
slain, its equipment falls to the ground and its spirit is released until
called upon once again.

The powers of a golem build over time (they can level up and save with
you).  However, should a golem be slain be it by a mortal (player) or
creature (mob) the golem's power will return to that of a previous state.
(If your golem gets killed, it loses a level and goes back to 0
experience).  A golem can never lose power more than five times from its
maximum state.  (meaning, if your golem is level 19 and gets killed 10x,
it still cannot ever drop below level 14 -- five off its max)

The "golemscore" command can be used while your golem is with you to view
its current statistics.

Syntax:   cast 'create golem'
          (must have correct components in inventory)

          golemscore
          (shows your currently created golem's statistics)

See Also: "RELEASE GOLEM"

#
"RELEASE GOLEM" 

At times, a magical construct is more than one can handle.  Certainly
they make excellent pets, not needing affection or sustenance--but it's
not proper to, say, arrive at a formal dinner with your amalgam of
living corpses as an entourage.

Wherever you may find yourself in contrast from your golem, simply
chant the spell, and the construct shall find eternal sleep once again--
probably making a terrible mess at the same time.

Syntax:   cast 'release golem'

See Also: "CREATE GOLEM"

#
BEACON 

Some say those Paladins that have reverted to the service of Evil can
request favors from the Nether in the form of travel.  How can one explain
the sometimes-supernatural lengths a murderous dark Knight will go to
wrench the life from a victim, otherwise?

An uttered malediction from an Anti-Paladin's blasphemous lips will
mark the soil with the undetectable taint of evil.  The spot will glow
with a light so gaunt it may not illuminate, yet with another word the
Anti-Paladin will be drawn back to the site in the space of a heartbeat--
as if it was the brightest of lanterns.  Only the most sacred ground may
repel this mark.

As the world is reborn, these marks do not remain in place.  "Beacon"
by itself will set the place, but the spell must be intoned to return to
the aforementioned location.

Syntax:   beacon (to set the location of the spell)
          cast 'beacon' (to return to the location)

See Also: ANTIPALADIN, RECALL

#
"DISPEL MINOR" 

This spell will remove one non-combat utility spell from a victim, such
as fly, detect good, and the like.  It will not remove the more offense
or defense-based ones such as PFE, Sanctuary, etc.

Some of the most experienced mages have found unexpected uses for this
spell. Experiment and you may too.

Syntax:   cast 'dispel minor' <victim>

Note:     At higher levels, this spell often has the ability to target
          specific spells on a victim, though its effectiveness is much
          reduced as a result.

See Also: "DISPEL MAGIC"

#
ROBOT BOT 

Bots are people who through the use of macro's or clients create scripts
to perform many tasks of the game.  While certain things are allowed in
order to allow players increased enjoyment of the game there are many
things that will get your character zapped (erased) if you are caught
doing them.  If you are doing any of the following things your character
may be destroyed when caught:

1.  Allowing a method for another player to control your character in a
manner that benefits someone.  ie. auto-spelling, auto-portaling, allowing
yourself to be 'driven' etc.  Triggers to automatically kill a PLAYER or
to do other harmful things are ok.

2.  Scripts to automatically kill a mob.  Anything that automatically kills
a monster is illegal.  The only thing of this type that is remotely legal
is to have an "auto-join" trigger to join a group member in combat.  If
you are using an auto-join you must be at your keyboard and actively
playing the game.

3.  Having a character saved at a certain place for the use as a "lock-
picker" or a portal target.  Don't do it.

If a bot character is used to benefit another of your characters it is at
the discretion of the gods to punish both characters.

Be aware that these are just examples and do not define every single
instance of what may be a bot.  If you are unsure, then ask an immortal.
It is always best to err on the side of caution then to have your character
deleted.

See Also: RULES

#
"CHARACTER SELLING" "CHARACTER SALES" "SELLING CHARACTERS" 
Character buying of characters on Dark Castle is now legal. Feel free ask
any immortal to act as a middleman. (note that they do not have to say yes)
However, should you choose to ignore this and attempt to buy/sell
a character and get ripped off, do NOT expect a reimb for your lost
money and do NOT start complaining over pray or pestering an immortal
about it. Should you choose to disregard this rule, you have no one to
blame but yourself.

#
REPLY 

By typing reply, this allows you to send a tell to the last person who
told to you without having to type their name.  This can be helpful when
the tell shoots by too fast for you to be able to see the name.

See Also: TELL

#
VT100

If you have vt100 color, then type toggle vt100 for the color to show up
on your monitor.

#
BARDSONGS BARD-SONGS

If this flag is toggled, bards will not see the mid-song output of their
singing. All messages such as: "Singing [Travelling March]: * * *" will
be supressed.

See Also: TOGGLE

#
PAGER-OFF "PAGER OFF" PAGER PAGE

The pager is one of the toggle-able functions.
Useful for those people with limited scrollback or no scrollback
capabilities within their telnet client.

To view large volumes of output in 24 line chunks: if you type toggle by
itself, the pager-off line in the output of the toggle command should look
like a double negative, such as:
pager-off  off

To view large volumes of output all at once in chunks of size limited
only by the mass of output: if you type toggle by itself, the pager-off
line in the output of the toggle command should look like:
pager-off  on

Sorry this is confusing.

Syntax:   toggle pager (will turn it on or off)

See Also: TOGGLE, COMPACT, BRIEF

#
BEEP 

By typing toggle beep, you will enable it so that when someone tells to
you your terminal will beep to inform you of the tell.

#
ANSI COLOR 

If you have ANSI color, then type toggle ANSI for the color to show up on
your monitor.

#
RAGE 

As the barbarian advances his skills and prowess he will find himself
able to enter into periods of rage where he becomes a fierce killer,
oblivious to all else.  After a short time, he will come out of this
mental state and be able to perform other actions.

Syntax:   rage <target>
          rage (if in combat)

See Also: BERSERK, BARBARIAN, SKILLS

#
BATTLECRY 

If a barbarian is selected to lead a party of adventurers, he can issue
forth a battlecry that will inspire his party members and cause them to go
into a rage, similar to that of barbarians.

Syntax:   battlecry

See Also: BERSERK, BARBARIAN, SKILLS

#
FRENZY 

Barbarians and warriors are very temperamental fighters, they don't
take too kindly to getting hurt themselves. If, in the heat of a battle,
one notices that he is getting unduly wounded he often becomes impetuous
and will lash out unexpectedly. This skill is known as frenzy and will
automatically set in when the fighter is under 40% hps, increasing the
strength of his attacks.

See Also: BERSERK, BARBARIAN, SKILLS, WARRIOR

#
CRAZEDASSAULT "CRAZED ASSAULT" "CRAZED ASS ASSAULT" CRAZEDASSASSAULT 

By invoking this skill, the barbarian will find that his ability to
hit things has significantly improved for a brief period of time.

Syntax:   crazedassault

See Also: BERSERK, BARBARIAN, SKILLS

#
"BLOOD FURY" "BLOODFURY" 

By directing his anger through his arteries, from the top of his head,
to the tip of his limbs, the barbarian has the ability to relieve his
body of a significant amount of incurred damage. Due to the radicals
that saturate the blood caused by this skill, you must wait a period of
a couple days between uses so that the blood may clear.

Syntax:   blood fury

See Also: BERSERK, BARBARIAN, SKILLS

#
RETREAT 

This skill is similar to fleeing, except that the person is able to
choose the direction in which they want to flee.  Also, if said person
has any followers they will retreat with the person.

Syntax:   retreat <direction>

See Also: SKILLS, WARRIOR, BARBARIAN

#
"ANIMATE DEAD" ANIMATE 

This spell will harnesses evil necromancy magic and brings life into a
corpse, creating a zombie.  The corpse will do the bidding of its master.
In addition, the more skilled and powerful the caster the more powerful
the zombie will be.

Syntax:   cast 'animate dead' <corpse>

You can also dismiss your corpse if need be.  This works even if your
corpse is not in the room with you.


Syntax:   cast 'dismiss corpse'

See Also: CLERIC, ANTIPALADIN, CLASSES, DISMISS CORPSE

#
SLIP 

A sleight of hand trick used by skilled thieves, this ability is much like
steal skill, but it allows the thief to try to sneak an item into
someone's pocket, instead of removing an item from someone's pocket.

Syntax:   slip <item> <person>

See Also: STEAL, PALM

#
HEADBUTT 

Unable to find any other use for their head, barbarians and warriors have
developed a tactic to turn it into a weapon.  This skill will invoke a
moment of shock in the recipient who will be unable to return blows in
combat for the duration of one round.  The barbarian will also be unable
to invoke any other commands until his or her head clears.

Syntax:   headbutt <target>
          headbutt (while in combat)

See Also: BARBARIAN, WARRIOR, CLASSES

#
FORAGE 

Using keen natural senses for nature, and intuition for herbs and
fauna, druids and rangers are able to roam about foraging for beneficial
ingredients to their own potions and salves.  The forager never knows
what will be found, for it is dependent on what nature lets their
eyes see.  However, strange and magical powers and poisons are known to
some as well as rare herbs and healing poultices.  It only costs movement,
for the ranger or druid may have to forage widely for these components.
As their interests differ, rangers and druids both forage for different
items.

Syntax:   forage

See Also: RANGER, DRUID, CLASSES, RACES

#
BINGO 

A thief or anti-paladin has a chance of instantly assassinating any
target on a backstab attempt.A bingo is simply a successful assassination.

See Also: BACKSTAB, DUALBACKSTAB

#
REALKILL RKILL RDEATH 

Dying a mob death, usually as a result of an action by another player
character.  Causing another player to die in such a way is legal.

After a player has been rkilled, the rest of the mud might see this:
<Victim> gossips 'Hey, a bunch of Uln'hyrrs just real killed me!'

After a certain level, there is a random chance that you will lose a
point or two from one of your attributes.  Please read the 'stat loss'
helpfile for more information.

Note: Player characters under level 10 do not lose their eq when
      they die.  Likewise, you may not consent a player under level
      10 to retrieve your eq.

See Also: DEATH TRAP, DEATH, STAT LOSS, UNDERTAKER

#
PINGPONG PING PONG PINGPONGING 

Pingponging a character is illegal. To pingpong a player is to participate
(by yourself or with others) in the repeated pkilling of a player with a
CANTQUIT flag while they are either in the Tavern or in the room they set
as their home. This is very illegal and subject to freezing because it
annoys the gods.

Attacking someone who is passively setting in a safe room waiting for their
CANTQUIT flag off, with the express purpose of "resetting" their flag, is
highly annoying and frowned upon.

Please, try to abide to an acceptable level of decency when pkilling each
other. Taking advantage of the fact that someone with a CANTQUIT has just
been killed is poor playermanship. There is no skill in killing a person
with one hitpoint, in fact, such practices are a blatant sign of a lack
of skill.

See Also: HELP RULES

#
LAG 

Lag is basically when the game is running slowly.  It
can be machine based, net based, or local lag.  When machine
lag is happening, all of the players on the game experience the
same lag, so the game runs slowly for everyone.  While this is
boring it is no particular danger to you.  Net lag and local lag
may affect only you.  The game runs at normal speeds, and
is constantly sending you information, but for whatever reason
it takes a while for your screen to display that info.  That is
potentially dangerous, as actions can take place in the game that
you do not know are occurring until several minutes after they
occur.  Examples of local lag are when your screen freezes, then
scrolls a lot of data by at once.  Machine lag is evidenced by a
slowly responding mud.  The gods have little power over lag, though
they may do their best to ease it by silencing anyone gossiping
too much about how much they dislike it.

Some ways to reduce lag in-MUD:
1) Toggle compact on
2) Toggle ansi color off
3) Turn of unnecessary channels
4) Use a smaller prompt

If none of these work, consider logging out so that other players can
take advantage of your bandwidth. ;)

#
ALIGNMENT ALIGN GOOD EVIL NEUTRAL 

On DC your alignment defines how good or evil you are on
a scale of 1000 to -1000.  If your alignment is between 1000
and 351 you are 'good'; +350 and -350 you are 'neutral' and
-351 to -1000 you are evil.  Alignment effects most people by
the equipment they wear.  If you are 'good', you can not
equip an anti_good equipment item.  In the same way if you

are neutral and become evil when fighting a mob, all of your
anti_evil flagged equipment will fall off.  Your alignment
generally changes by the mobs you kill.  Kill a good mob and
you become evil.  Certain classes (Paladin, Anti-Paladin) will
lose abilities if their alignment becomes unfavorable.

See Also: PFE, PFG, CLASSES, SKILLS

#
PLATINUMSMITH PLATSMITH 

All GL or god-load equipment can be purchased at the Platinum
Smiths or Merchants who are scattered about the realm.
When purchasing equipment from them keep in mind that it is
not transferable from character to character.

Also while god load can't be scrapped it certainly can be
damaged, and reselling damaged god load back to the platinum
smith lowers its value drastically. You are advised to first
repair it before reselling.

Reimbursements for selling damaged god load are not given.

See Also: GODLOAD, PLATINUM

#
MORGUE UNDERTAKER MORTICIAN 

Sometimes an over-ambitious adventurer finds his or her corpse
quickly becoming room temperature after trying to attack
an all too powerful monster. Or you die in lands too distant
to return to before the scavengers devour your corpse.

It is times like this one needs to hire the services of an
undertaker. An undertaker can recover your corpse for a
nominal fee, usually equal to the cost of all the equipment that
you carry. Additionally, any other player which you have 'consented'
will be able to purchase your corpse from the Undertaker.

Once you die, you will have a limited amount of time in which to
purchase your corpse, because after so long the maggots will
have consumed so much of your corpse that not even the undertaker
wants to touch it.

Of course you can always ask a fellow player to attempt to
retrieve your corpse for you by requesting a 'CR' or 'corpse
retrieval'. Should you find someone brave enough to take the
same path that lead to your demise you need to give them
permission to touch your corpse (with the consent command).

If you decide to purchase your corpse from the Undertaker, you must
get the eq off the corpse quickly, or you stand a chance of loosing it
all in a crash or reboot.

You can also use the value command to get an estimate on your corpse
price.

See Also: PLATINUM, CONSENT, RDEATH, VALUE, DEATH

#
TOGGLE TOG TOGG 

Toggle lets you toggle a bunch of switches that have only
two positions: On or Off. Typing toggle lets you see all
your settings.

You can toggle the following options: brief, compact, beep, anonymous,
ansi, vt100, wimpy, pager-off, bard-songs, auto-eat, summonable, lfg,
notell, and notax.  In addition you can toggle the different
communication channels by typing 'channel'.

When you type toggle you see the current settings, in order
to change a setting, for example anonymous, you would type
'toggle anonymous' and it will be the opposite setting.

See Also: CHANNEL, BRIEF, COMPACT, BEEP, ANONYMOUS, ANSI, VT100, WIMPY,
          PAGER, BARDSONGS, AUTO-EAT, SUMMONABLE, LFG, NOTELL, NOTAX

#
RENAME NAMECHANGE "CHANGE NAME" "NAME CHANGE" 

Choosing a name is a sacred thing, the gods dislike changing
names. In order to convince one of the gods that you deserve a
name change, you need to sacrifice 500 plats to the cause.

This means choose a name you like when you first start your
character. Those who purchase their characters, you need to
figure the cost of the name change into the purchase price,
or live with name.

A name swap between two more more characters still costs
500 plats per character whose name is changed.

The immortal changing your name may also allow a gender change,
but do not assume you will get it automatically.

Contact an implementer for a rename.

See Also: RULES

#
PASSWORD PASSWD PASSWORDS 

At Dark Castle, you are held responsible for the security and actions of
your own characters.  We have put the mechanism in place for safety
already...it is the PLAYER's option to exercise it, and the player takes
ALL responsibility for such a decision.  If your character ever cheats,
gives away platinum, erases themselves, etc, you will be held FULLY
responsible for those actions because you either:
1) Did it yourself.
2) Gave out your password.
3) Used an easy to guess password.
   Either way, it is your fault.  IF YOU FOLLOW THE INSTRUCTIONS IN THIS
HELP FILE, YOU WILL NOT EVER HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT THIS HAPPENING TO YOU.
What happens now is up to YOU, *not* the gods.

The first way to protect your characters is to have a secure password.
Below is some suggestions we have made up for protecting your password:

     1. The password is not the same as the character name, nor does it
        contain the character name in the password.
     2. The password should be 6 to 8 letters in length. It should have
        at least one upper and one lower case character, one numeral [0-9]
        and at least one symbol.
     3. The password should also should not be a word, acronym or anything
        else that can easily be guessed.
     4. Your password on Dark Castle should be different from your
        accounts at school or your internet provider, and especially keep
        a different password on every mud you play at. That way if someone
        cracks your account at one site they can't break into other
        systems.
     5. Your password should be changed every couple of months. Every
        quarter would not be a bad idea.
     6. Protect your password from the prying eyes of your neighbors.
     7. Do NOT let ANYONE ELSE know your password.  This includes friends,
        relatives, clan members, etc.  I'm sure you trust your buddy, but
        the bottom line is that you are PUTTING YOURSELF IN THE LINE OF
        FIRE by doing this.  No one thought it would happen to them until
        it was too late...
     8. DO NOT GIVE YOUR PASSWORD TO ANYONE WHO ASKS FOR IT.  This
        includes gods.  If a god really needed to use your character
        (and I can't imagine why that would be) there is a command
        they can use to do so.  More than likely anyone asking for the
        password is impersonating a god (see help impersonate).  Ignore
        any threats of zappage or bodily harm from such a person. Log
        the interaction and mail it to your favorite implementer.
     9. Any instance in which you allow your password to be captured by
        a computer program, such as a mud client, you are in danger of
        it being stolen by whatever means.  We are not responsible for
        your computer's security.

Please do not ask for a reimbursement in a case of a stolen character.  If
your character becomes corrupted due to a bug, that is different, but if
you follow the rules listed above you will never, ever have to worry about
this.  If you don't follow them, it's your own damn fault.

Special note:  Even if you forget your password, these rules apply.  We
will not give out character passwords, whether you forgot it or the
character was stolen from you, or whatever else happens.  The only way to
prove legal ownership of a character is to have its password.  There is
no other way to convince us 100%, period.

Passwords are YOUR RESPONSIBILITY!

See Also: ARBITRATION, IMPERSONATE, RULES, MULTI

#
TASTE 

**This command is currently disabled.

This command allows you to taste your food.  While it doesn't
satisfy your stomach it does allow you to get poisoned.

Syntax:   taste <food>

See Also: EAT, DRINK, SIP

#
SIP 

This command allows you to taste the contents of a container.
While containers containing poison or alcohol will alter your
state of well-being, sipping won't quench your thirst.

Syntax:   sip <liquid container>

See Also: EAT, DRINK, TASTE

#
HOME 

This command sets your home, the place to which you recall when using the
spell or scroll.  Note that it only works in a safe room. This will not
work for chars level 1 - 10, your home is automatically set to the Dark
Castle login room.

Syntax:   home (while in a safe room)

See Also: RECALL

#
DAMAGE 

Damage dealt by the various skills and spells at a player's disposal
is directly related to how well the player has learned the ability.
For example, if your "fireball" spell is only learned to the level of
"average" expect it to only do about 50% of the potential maximum for
the spell.  Spells and skills will never do less than 50% of their
potential maximum, no matter how poorly you have learned the ability.

When in combat, you will see a damage message with each hit.  Here is a
listing of the various messages you get, in order of least damage to most
damage.

- tickle
- graze
- hit
- hit hard
- hit very hard
- hit damned hard
- massacre
- annihilate
- obliterate
- cremate
- beat the shit
- brutally pummel
- BEAT THE LIVING SHIT

- POUND THE FUCK

- FUCKING DEMOLISH

- TOTALLY FUCKING DISINTEGRATE

#
MOB MOBILE NPC MOBS MOBILES NPCS MONSTER MONSTERS 

These are the terms referring to the Non-Player-Characters in the game,
that is, creatures and people who are not controlled directly by a
real life person. The core activity in the game revolves around killing
NPCs for gold, experience, and equipment.  Getting killed by a Mob comes
with special consequences.

See Also: DEATH, RDEATH, COMBAT

#
GL GODLOAD "GOD LOAD" 

Godload is the term used to describe the extra special equipment which
can be purchased from a Platinum Smith or Merchant.  This equipment
cannot scrap, be stolen, or lost due to death.

See Also: PLATINUM

#
TELL 

The tell command is used to communicate to one player mystically no
matter where they are located.  However, to use this the player must
be visible to you and awake, and not in a quiet room (such as a library
with quiet signs posted, or in a room with a message board).

Syntax:    tell <player> <message>

Example:   tell Urizen I like meatballs!

See Also: GOSSIP, PSAY, SAY, GTELL, CTELL, AUCTION, CHANNELS

#
GTELL "GROUP TELL" 

The gtell command is used to communicate to all players in your group
at the same time.  It will work wherever they are, be they visible or
not, and will work while people are sleeping.

Syntax:   gtell <message>

Example:  gtell Hey guys, don't you all want some of Valkyrie's luvin?

Note:     The . (period) command can be used as a shortcut for gtell.

See Also: GOSSIP, SAY, PSAY, CHANNELS, AUCTION, CTELL, TELL

#
SAY PSAY 

The say command is used to communicate to all players in the same room
that you are in.  All awake players in the room will see the message.

Syntax:   say <message>

Example:  say Hey does everyone here like ABBA?!

Note:     The ' (apostrophe) command can be used as a shortcut for say.

You can also target your "says" to a specific person with the PSAY
command.  Everyone in the room will still see your message but the
intended recipient will be noted in the say.

Syntax:   psay <name> <message>

Example:  psay Dasein Hey man, philosophy SUCKS!

See Also: GOSSIP, AUCTION, EMOTE, CHANNELS, TELL

#
EMAIL MAIL 

Immortal    Email                             Title

Apocalypse  DC_Apoc@hotmail.com               Lead Implementor
Urizen      nick.bj@gmail.com                 Lead Coder

More immortals and their contact information is listed once you enter
the game.


#
"CLAN HALL" CLANHALL "CLAN HALLS" CLANHALLS "CLAN HOUSE" "CLAN HOUSES" 

Clan Halls are a place where members of a specific clan can meet, relax,
make home, and be safe.  They are the only rooms outside of towns and
guilds in which it is possible to set "home".

Clan Halls are only available once a clan is established and clan fee paid.
There are also a wide range of additional fees associated with the
creation and installation of a clan hall.  See "help CLAN PRICES" for
specific costing information.

Clan Halls each have a guard which, as long as it lives, will only let
members of that clan pass into the hall.  Clan halls may only have one
entrance and/or exit.

Each clan's hall also has a Clan Totem in a special room inside.
(see "help CLAN TOTEM")
Clan Halls can also contain a Clan Vault where a certain number of items
can be stored and accessed only by members.
(see "help CLAN VAULT")

See Also: CINFO, CLAN TOTEM, CLAN VAULT, CLAN PRICES, CLAN GUARD

#
"CLAN TOTEM" TOTEM "CLAN ALTAR" "CLAN TOTEMS" 

Clan Totems are a special object that represents the theme or "essence"
of a clan.  While they are placed within a special "altar" that resides
in each clan's hall, all members of a clan gain a bonus. (outlined below)

If a clan's totem is removed from the altar, the bonus is removed.  If a
clan places a totem stolen from another clan in their altar they gain the
bonus from that totem in addition to bonuses from any others already
inside. After a reboot or a crash the totem will reset in the original
clanhall.

For example, if Smoke Jaguars totem gives +1 fire-saves to all clan members
and it is stolen by DC Guard, Smoke Jaguars would lose their +1 fire-saves
bonus.  If DC Guard then placed the stolen totem in their altar, they would
gain +1 fire-saves plus the bonuses from any other totems already inside.

Totems are included in the initial clan hall cost.
Changing the effect of your clan's totem costs 2000 platinum.

Available totem effects are:
+1 to any attribute (str, con, dex, wis, int)
+1 to any save-effect (fire, cold, acid, poison, magic, energy)
-10 bonus to Armor-Class
+1 to-hit bonus
+1 to hit-point or mana regeneration
+2 to movement regeneration

See Also: CLAN HALL, CLAN VAULT, CLAN PRICES, CLAN GUARD, CLANS

#
"CLAN VAULT" VAULT "CLAN VAULTS" 

One of the features available as a part of a clan hall is a "Clan Vault".
The clan vault is a central storage facility where up to a certain number
of items (based on weight) can be stored for use by clan members.

Only members of a clan will be able to open a clan's vault, however if a
vault is left open, any interloper will be able to acquire the goods
inside.

The goods stored in a clan vault are saved with the rest of their
clan hall. (meaning they don't disappear on a crash or reboot)

The cost of a Clan Vault is 5000 platinum.

See Also: CLAN HALL, CLAN PRICES, CLAN TOTEM, CLAN GUARD, CLANS

#
"CLAN PRICES" PRICES "CLAN PRICE" "CLAN COSTS" COSTS 

Below you will find a detailed breakdown of clan and clan hall costs.
Note: All costs are in Platinum coins but *must* be paid in gold
      coins or "Clan Vouchers".

Basic Clan Fees
---------------

Clan Startup Fee (Name reservation, channel, etc) - 5000 Platinum
To submit an order for a Clan Hall                - 1000
To make any changes to a Clan Hall                - 1000 + item fees

General Clan Hall Items               Basic Clanhall Package (5000 total)
-----------------------               ----------------------

Single Room               - 2000      Submit Order              - 1000
Door                      -  500      One Room (flags optional) - 2000
Hidden Door               - 1000      Standard Guild Guard      - 2000
Clan Board                - 1000      Guild Guard Entry Room    - Included
(additional boards 1500 each)         Clan Totem                - Included
                                      Door (optional)           - Free
                                      Fountain (optional)       - Free

No-Charge Room Flags
--------------------

No-Track (mobs cannot be tracked through) - No Fee
Clan-Room (Mandatory)                     - No Fee
Safe (players can set home)               - No Fee
Indoors or Outdoors                       - No Fee
Light or Dark                             - No Fee
No-Mob (mobs cannot wander in)            - No Fee

Additional Room Flags
---------------------

No-Magic (no magic or ki can be used in room)            - 500 Platinum
No-Portal (portals may not target inside room)           - 500
No_Summon (players cannot be summoned from inside room)  - 250
Fall-Direction (non-flying players fall entering room)   - 250
Quiet (noise and message proof - like mortal board room) - 250
Unstable (portals may not work and players may stumble)  - 250
No-Scan ("scan" does not work inside room)               - 250
No-Teleport (teleport spells cannot land inside room)    - 1000
No-Where ("where" does not work inside room)             - 250

Sector Flags
------------

City Sector (room is flagged "city" type)     - No Fee
Paved Road (room is flagged "road" type)      - No Fee
Inside Sector (room is flagged "inside" type) - No Fee
Air (room is flagged "air" type)              - 250

Additional Objects and Mobs
---------------------------

Flavor (couch, barrel, keg, etc)              -  500 Platinum
Climbable Object (rope, ladder, etc)          -  500
Portal (1 exit/entrance to within hall only)  -  500
Fountain (extra fountains)                    -  500
Basic Mob (general mobile for flavour)        - 1000
Vendor Mob (mobile that sells food/drink)     - 1000
Food/Drink Per Item                           -  250
Mob Flavour Procs (say, emote, shout)         -  500
Flavour Object for Mob (ie. armour for guard) - 1000

Clan Guard pricing in "help CLAN GUARD".

See Also: CLAN GUARD, CLAN HALL, CLAN TOTEM, CLAN VAULT, CLANS

#
"CLAN GUARD" "CLAN GUARDS" 

Each clan hall has a guardian mobile at the entrance who's job is to
prevent non-clan members from entering a clan's hall.  The guard that
comes with a "base" hall, while fairly strong, is beatable.  As a result,
there are many upgrades you can purchase for your clan's guardian.

Clan Guard Costs (note: only 1 guard per clan)
----------------

Basic Guard: 4000hp, 3 Attacks, Solidity, Level 55 - 2000 Platinum

Stat Additions (Max: lev 100, -1000 ac, +90hit, 8d10 +80dam, 10k hp)
--------------

+500 hit points                              - 1000

+2 Dam / +2 Hit                              - 1000
-10 Armor Class                              -  500
Add 1 Level (improves saves and other stats) - 1000

Immunities and Resistances (up to 2 magic and 2 non-magic of each)
--------------------------

(Cost: 2000 per Immunity, 1000 per Resistance)

Magic Flags: Fire, Cold, Energy, Acid, Poison, Magic, Water
             Paralyze, Sleep, Song, Ki

Non-Magic Flags: Pierce, Slash, Bludgeon, Whip, Crush, Hit, Sting

Affect Flags
------------


Sanctuary (mob is protected by sanctuary)        - 1000
Fire-Shield (mob has a shield of fire)           - 1000
No-Magic (mob shuts off all magic in the room)   - 1000
Lightning-Shield (mob has a shield of energy)    - 750
Frost-Shield (mob can deflect physical blows)    - 750
Reflect (mob can reflect spells)                 - 750
Invisible (mob is invisible)                     - 250
Huge (mob cannot be stabbed, bashed, or stunned) - 2000
4th Attack                                       - 1000
Scavenger (mob picks up items off the ground)    - 750
Fly (mob is flying)                              - 250
Infravision (mob can see in dark)                - 250
Sense Life (mob can sense hiddens)               - 250
True Sight (mob can see hiddens)                 - 750
Detect Invisible                                 - 500
Undead (mob won't leave corpse)                  - 500
Hide (mob can hide)                              - 1000
Stupid (mob will not carry a hate flag)          - No Fee (Mandatory)
Sentinel (mob will not wander)                   - No Fee (Mandatory)
Solidity (mob cannot be teleported or recalled)  - No Fee (Mandatory)

"Class" Types (guards can receive a specific class's skill set)
-------------

Thief                                     - 2000
Druid, Bard, Anti-Paladin                 - 3000
Monk, Warrior, Barbarian, Paladin, Ranger - 4000
Mage, Cleric                              - 5000

See Also: CLAN PRICES, CLAN HALL, CLAN TOTEM, CLAN VAULT, CLANS

#
"CLAN TAX" "CLAN TAXES" TAX TAXES CTAX 

Clan leaders have the ability to tax clan members on the gold they
receive from mobs.

The 'ctax' command sets the tax percentage for all clan members who
are participating in the clan's tax system.

Syntax:   ctax <number>

Clan members can opt out of paying taxes completely by toggling the
notax flag.

Syntax:   toggle notax

See Also: CDEPOSIT, CWITHDRAW, CTAX, CBALANCE, NOTAX

#
CDEPOSIT "CLAN DEPOSIT" CDEP 

This command allows you to deposit gold into your clan's bank account.

Syntax:   cdeposit <number>

Note:     CDEPOSIT is only usable at the Bank of Sorpigal.

See Also: CWITHDRAW, CBALANCE, CTAX, NOTAX, BANK

#
CBALANCE "CLAN BALANCE" CBAL 

This command allows you to view the balance of your clan's bank account.

Syntax:   cbalance

Note:     CBALANCE is only usable at the Bank of Sorpigal.

See Also: CWITHDRAW, CTAX, CDEPOSIT, NOTAX, BANK

#
CWITHDRAW "CLAN WITHDRAW" CWITH 

This command allows you to withdraw money from the clan's bank account.
Only those who have the "cwithdraw right" are allowed to withdraw money.

Syntax:   cwithdraw <number>

Note:     CWITHDRAW is only usable at the Bank of Soprigal.

See Also: CBALANCE, CTAX, CDEPOSIT, NOTAX, BANK

#
NOTAX NOTAXES 

This command allows you to toggle whether or not you participate in the
clan's tax system.

Syntax:   toggle notax

See Also: CTAX, CBALANCE, CDEPOSIT, CWITHDRAW

#
WWW WEB "HOME PAGE" 

DC has its own home page on the World Wide Web.
It contains all sorts of good stuff including the DC Forums.

The address of this page is : http://www.dcastle.info

#
WIMPY 

Wimpy can be a very useful command at times.  When it is on, your
character will automatically flee from battle when you get below a certain
percentage of your total hitpoints.  Simply type wimpy to toggle it.
Beware though, for sometimes it may cause you to flee into a situation
even more worse than the one you were in.

The advantage to having wimpy off is that combat-induced lag is reduced if
your foe dies or flees while you're incapacitated (lagged).

Syntax:   toggle wimpy

See Also: FLEE, RECALL, COMBAT

#
DC++

Coming soon! We expect it ANY day now. ;)

See Also: BUILDING

#
BUILDING BUILD BUILDERS BUILDER 

We are always accepting applications.  Please email them to your
favorite implementor.  PROOFREAD them too, or they will be rejected.
This should go without saying.

If you are wanting to build, you first must create a sample of what you
can do.  This must be 3-5 room descriptions, at least 5 lines in length
each. You should also include a mob or 2, and perhaps an object
description. It should keep with the medieval fantasy theme of DC,
be neat and free of typos, and be extraordinary enough to convince
the world imps to free up a zone for you. Also keep in mind that you
are required to sacrifice a level 50 character to immort.

Applications that do not include a building sample like above
WILL NOT EVEN BE READ.  It doesn't matter how many other immortals
you've had on other MUDs, or how many times you've previously been
an immortal on DC (kind of makes us wonder why you got zapped in
the first place).  You MUST include YOUR work.

See Also: EMAIL

#
COMBAT BATTLE 

Combat is the main focus of the mud.  Killing mobs is the main way to
advance in levels, and better your character.  Combat can be started
in several ways, depending on your character class.  Any class can
start combat with the kill command, while other classes may choose
to start combat with a spell, or skill such as backstab, kick, or
stun, etc...

After combat has started, you also have a choice of things to
do.  You can use your class's various battle skills, such as kick,
or cast spells.  Note that when you are in combat, you do not have to
specify a name after the skill or spell.  You will automatically cast
or direct your skill at the mob (or player) you are fighting.

If things get rough during the fight, you can choose to flee, or
another helpful means of escape, recall.

See Also: CONSIDER, SKILLS, SPELLS, KILL, FLEE, RECALL, MURDER

#
CANTQUIT "CANT QUIT" CQ 

A CANTQUIT flag is a penalty received for one of three things.  You will
receive a CANTQUIT flag for pstealing or attacking someone or attacking
their charmed mobile.  If you are affected by a CANTQUIT, you will not be
able to quit, you will not be safe from attacks in a safe room.  CANTQUIT
flags expire in five ticks unless you get into a playerfight in the
meantime (and hit back before the fight ends) in which case the CANTQUIT
flag will reset back to five ticks.

If you attempt to recall while affected by CANTQUIT, you will be placed
in the tavern, rather than in your home.

See Also: RULES, PSTEAL, PKILLING

#
PKILLING PK PKILL PLAYERKILL PLAYERKILLER PLAYERKILLING 

Attacking and killing another player is known as pkilling.  This is legal
at DC, but should you choose to attack another player, you will be
given a CANTQUIT flag.  A pkilled player loses nothing.  They will not
leave a corpse (unless flagged a thief) and lose no XP.  Attacking a
player while he or she is fighting a mobile or otherwise trying to take
advantage of game mechanics in order to cause a real death is legal on
Dark Castle MUD, but it won't make you real popular.

In terms of pkill stats on your 'score' sheet, a player kill only counts
if the victim's level is 10+, and is not linkdead.

See Also: RULES, PSTEAL, CANTQUIT

#
MOTD "MESSAGE OF THE DAY" CMOTD 

Motd displays the world Message Of The Day seen by all players while
logging in. The most important announcements are displayed here. Lesser
announcements are displayed in the news.

Cmotd displays your clan motd, if you are a member of a clan.
The Clan Message Of The Day is also displayed right below the
world Message Of The Day, when logging in.

Syntax:   motd     - Shows world motd to all players.
          cmotd    - Shows clan motd if you are a member of a clan.

See Also: CLAN MOTD, NEWS

#
STORY HISTORY 

This command shows the lore of Dark Castle.

Syntax:   story

See Also: MOTD, NEWS

#
AUTOEAT AUTODRINK "AUTO EAT" AUTO-EAT "AUTO DRINK"

This feature, when toggled on, will make you automatically drink and
eat when hungry or thirsty. If there is a fountain in the current room,
you will drink from that first, otherwise it will look to your inventory,
and then inside of containers in your inventory for food and drink. Beware
that relying on this feature can be a boon for those intending to slip
you poisoned food or drink.

See Also: HUNGER, THIRST

#
CLANS CLAN 

Clans consist of one clan leader and as many members as the leader wishes
to have.  Clans generally have basic policies and rules, but that is all
up to the leader of the clan.  Clans are helpful because you have fellow

members to group with, to help out, and be helped out by, and clans also
serve to give you a strong sense of belonging.  For a listing of all clans
and their current leader, type 'clans.'

There are a limited number of slots for clans.  If it comes to a choice
between two clans when installing new ones, the clan which is serious
enough about its existence to invest in a clan hall will be given
preference.  Inactive clans may be removed to make way for new ones.
Clans cannot be bought or sold.  If you buy the leader of the clan, you
are buying the clan.  Should this become known to the clan god the clan
may be removed.  Should you purchase a character that is IN a clan but not
the leader, your fate will be decided by the leader of said clan.

See Also: OUTCAST, ACCEPT, CPROMOTE, CTELL, EMAIL, CLAN HOUSES, CINFO
          CLEADER, CLAN PRICES, CLAN VAULT, CLAN TOTEM, CLAN GUARD

#
CLEADER "CLAN LEADER" "CLAN RIGHTS" RIGHTS MEMBERS "CLAN MOTD" 

Clan leaders are granted special abilities to organize their clan and do
various other nifty things. They can be accessed by the leader typing the
'clan' command and are explained as follows:

clan list        - gives the normal output of the 'clan' command,
                   the list of all other clans on the mud
clan email       - allows the leader to change the
                   email displayed by 'cinfo'
clan description - allows the leader to change description in 'cinfo'
clan login       - used to change message displayed when members enter game
clan logout      - used to change message displayed when members leave game
clan death       - used to change message displayed when clan member rdies
clan members     - displays a list of all players who are clan members
clan rights *    - allows leader to impart abilities upon other members
clan motd        - changes clan message of the day, which is displayed
                   to all clan members when logging in right below
                   the MUD motd (or when typing: cmotd)
clan help        - shows this stuff

* the clan leader can impart abilities upon other clan members using
  clan rights <member> <right>. These rights are as follows:

accept    - allows member to accept new members into the clan
outcast   - allows member to outcast members from the clan
read      - allows member to read messages on clan message board
write     - allows member to write new messages on clan board
remove    - allows member to erase messages, other than their own, from
            clan message board. All members can remove their own message
            by default.
member    - allows member to view clan roster by typing: clan members
rights    - allows member to impart rights upon other members. This can
            only be used to give rights which imparting member already
            has.
messages  - allows member to change login, logout, and death messages
info      - allows member to change clan email, description, and motd
tax       - allows member to set the clan's tax percentage.
withdraw  - allows the member to withdraw gold from the clan's bank
            account.

Note that if you accidently have a space after the right when you do:
clans rights <member> <right>, as in: "clans rights Joebob info"

This will result in a "right not found" error.
If you are doing lots of names as a batch, reading in from a file, your
client will likely send the literal space to the mud if you do have a
space at the of the line.

See Also: CLANS, OUTCAST, ACCEPT, CPROMOTE

#
OUTCAST 

This clan related command can be used by the leader to remove any member
from the clan, or can be used by a member to quit the clan.
Note that if you are outcasting yourself, you must still type your name
after outcast.

Syntax:   outcast <name>

See Also: CLANS, ACCEPT, CPROMOTE, CTELL

#
ACCEPT 

Accept is a clan command used by the leader to induct a member into the
clan.

Syntax:   Accept <name>

See Also: CLANS, CPROMOTE, OUTCAST, CTELL.

#
CPROMOTE 

Clan related command used by the leader to appoint a new leader.

Syntax:   cpromote <name>

See Also: CLANS, ACCEPT, OUTCAST, CTELL

#
CTELL 

Ctell is a communications channel, much like grouptell, but can only be
heard by those on your clan.

Syntax:   ctell <message>

See Also: CLANS, ACCEPT, CPROMOTE, OUTCAST.

#
KI 

Ki is the energy of nature that can only be harnessed effectively by a
monk. Throughout the ages, several abilities have been developed by the
ancient monk elders which allow a monk to use spirit of nature around
them.  It will not work in safe rooms.

Ki is also the source for the songs of bards. Some bard songs will only
only deplete the bard's Ki source once: when the song is first begun;
other songs are more draining and will deplete ki at constant intervals
while the song is in progress.

See Also: MONK, BARD, SING.

#
"KI PUNCH" PUNCH 

Ki punch is the most basic of these skills, which is a small directed
energy pattern that emanates from the monk to his or her opponent.  Ki
Punch costs a fair amount of ki, but should it hit, the monk's opponent
will lose a full quarter of his current hit-points.

Syntax:   ki punch <target>

See Also: KI, MONK

#
"KI SENSE" SENSE 

Ki sense improves the senses beyond the normal spectrum, but does not
allow the monk to see everything.

Syntax:   ki sense

See Also: KI, MONK

#
"KI BLAST" BLAST 

Ki blast sends a powerful burst of energy from within the monk, drawing
upon the energy from the immediate environment against an enemy.  It has
been heard that sometimes the blast will be powerful enough to throw
one's opponent from the room.

Syntax:   ki blast <target>

See Also: KI, MONK

#
"KI STORM" STORM 

Ki energy is often channeled to bring about acts of necessary violence.
While the name indicates chaos and unpredictability, this is not the
case.  The Monk simply focuses the energy internally, serving as a
spiritual beacon.  Those too close to the practitioner are immediately
distraught with an internal conflict, wracked with pain and exposed to
the judgment of the monk.  The disciple may not be distracted by combat,
lest the Ki energies diffuse.  At times, the energy drawn inward may be
so intense that minor miracles can occur. This Ki power is considered
peaceful (?!?!) and may not be used in safe rooms.

Syntax:   ki storm

See Also: KI, MONK

#
"KI PURIFY" PURIFY 

During the travels of a practitioner of the fighting arts, one is
expected to suffer the contaminations afflicted by nature, as well
as civilization.  These take many forms, but one skilled in the use
of Ki as a purgatory measure may eliminate these pollutions from the
body.  No more does the student need rely on the promises of snake-oil
vendors or the gestures and invocations of false prophets.

Syntax:   ki purify

See Also: KI, MONK

#
"KI SPEED" SPEED 

Many fighters lash out blindly to work their styles harder than their
bodies allow.  The inclusion of Ki energies in order to gain speeds
unmatched only through magic is far superior.  Practitioners can
channel the Ki flow into their body and shoulders, giving such fluidity
to their strikes that their opponents seem rigid.  The disciple may lash
out as quickly as once before, when members of the order relied on magical
artifice to empower them.

Syntax:   ki speed

See Also: KI, MONK, HASTE

#
"KI DISRUPT" DISRUPT 

Ki may be channeled in such a way to struggle against the magical
energies surrounding one's foe.  The practitioner of Disruption
temporarily removes the foe's physical body from sight, and instead
envisions the wreath of power which radiates in its stead.  Extending
one's Ki outwards in a strike may wound or completely impair the
magical auras upon which many denizens of this world rely for
protection or offense.  It is not as simple as punching one's hand
through a foe's chest, so much discipline must be gained before this
skill is mastered.

Syntax:   ki disrupt <target>

See Also: KI, MONK

#
"KI STANCE" STANCE 

Monks are extremely robust combatants however many can still not physically
withstand the onslaught of an enraged barbarian. Monks have therefore
developed a way of channeling their ki to aid them in these circumstances.
The monk takes a strong defensive position and then enters a state of mind
where he imagines the strongest blows from a berserker as hurting him
no more than slap of a small goblin. For a brief length of combat,
all damage inflicted upon the monk will be greatly reduced.

Syntax:   ki stance

See Also: KI, MONK

#
"SHIELD BLOCK" SHIELDBLOCK SHIELD SHIELDS 

Shields are perhaps the most sought after item for those wishing to
increase their chances of survival in a battle. In general a shield will
greatly reduce your armor class, making you harder to hit. Shields can
be either held or worn.

Additionally, those classes who most often find themselves at the
receiving end of attacks have the ability to entirely deflect their
opponents attack with their shield. This skill is known as 'shield block'
and is an automatic combat skill, but the fighter must be wearing a
shield for it to work.

Finally, there is also a mage spell named "shield" It will increase
the mages armor ability slightly.

See Also: PARRY, AC, WEAR, SPELLS, MAGE

#
TRACK 

Track <name> allows the ranger to search the surroundings for the tracks
of a specific target if that player or monster has been through the area.

For example: track Llevity

The 'track' command by itself allows any character to search for the
tracks in the same room.  Track is done by scent, so flying won't help
you.

Syntax:   track <name>       (for Rangers only)
          track              (all players)

#
BEE STING SWARM "BEE STING" "BEE SWARM" 

The 'bee sting' spell is a lesser ranger lore.  Upon casting, the ranger
summons the aid of stinging bees to inflict minor wounds upon a foe.
The greater the level and ability of the ranger, the greater the number
of bees that will be summoned.

Syntax:   cast 'bee sting' <target>

'Bee swarm' is a more advanced spell requiring the lore of conjuring a
swarm of bees to attack one's opponents.  Note this is an area spell
and will affect everything in room.

Syntax:   cast 'bee swarm'

See Also: RANGERS, CLASSES

#
"CREEPING DEATH" 

Imagine a quivering hoard of carnivorous insects biting, nibbling, and
attacking your opponent.  It's an unsettling scene to observe, but
effective.  There is also a slight chance that the target will
react violently with the insect venom, in which case your opponent may
become poisoned, or die instantly.

Syntax:   cast 'creeping' <target>

#
"HERB LORE" 

Rangers, like druids, seek out knowledge of herbs as part of their growing
lore of the forest.  When successfully cast, this spell will restore some
vital life to the target of the ranger's spell.

Syntax:   cast 'herb lore' <target>

#
"CALL FOLLOWER" 

This spell allows the ranger to call upon creatures around him or her to
aid in matters of adventure and/or survival.  Note that the target must
be a tamed creature of the ranger's for the spell to succeed.

Syntax:   cast 'call follower' <target>

#
"FOREST MELD" FORESTMELD 

Over time, the ancient druids of the land learned how to cooperate
and even merge with nature.  The rangers have inherited this ability,
known as 'forest melding'.  This spell, when cast in a forest, will
literally make the casting ranger a part of his or her surroundings.
This spell is known to hide the caster from all forms of magical
seeing, even the true sight of mages and clerics.  Furthermore it
is rumored the caster can then move about the forest with the stealth
of a dryad.  The spells effects will last until the caster enters a
non-forest room, or until the duration has ended.

Syntax:   cast 'forest meld'

#
ENTANGLE 

The exact usage of this lore is unknown.  On occasion, the sheer force
of surprise of foliage entrapping a foe can blind it to its usual
surroundings and can lower the opponent's armor class by the entangling
nature of the roots and rank undergrowth called to the caster's need.

Syntax:   cast 'entangle' <target>

#
FELINE AGILITY "FELINE AGILITY" 

Yet another ranger spell which mimics the stealthy, agile nature of cats
in the wild.  The lore allows the ranger is able to move with more
dexterity and with that allows to evade or hunt one's foes with a
keener sense of protection.

Syntax:   cast 'feline agility'

#
NEW NEWBIE 

Welcome to Dark Castle, newcomer!  For specific help, type the word
help followed by the item you want help on.  For example, to view the
information for newbies about equipment, type 'help newbie equipment.'

For those of you who have access to a web browser, you can get pointers
on how to play at Dark Castle, plus get a feel for what this mud is all
about. type 'help www' for Dark Castle's web page

If you would like some more step-by-step guidance type: help gettingstarted
There are helpfiles on virtually any topic associated with the game so
be sure to check out as many helpfiles as you can.

***You are REQUIRED to read "help rules", "help multi", and "help bot".***

***All players MUST know the rules... excuses will NOT be tolerated.***

See Also: NEWBIE EQUIPMENT, NEWBIE MONEY, NEWBIE COMMUNICATION, RECALL,
          RULES, NEWBIE AREAS, WWW, SLANG, GETTING STARTED, HELP

#
"NEWBIE EQUIPMENT" 

As you may note that you are stark naked, there are several ways
to remedy this.  You can pick up a near complete set of basic
equipment by killing the mobs and getting stuff from Dark Castle's
mud school, which is located up from the Albatross Inn.  Don't
forget mud school banner (permanent light) and diploma (+wis, +con)
when you leave mud school!

None of these items can be sold.  Therefore it would be best
to equip yourself with these items.  You may do this with the
following commands :

        wear <item>     : you wear clothing/armor such as:
                                example: wear jacket
        wield <weapon>  : if you want to use any weapon you must wield it.
                                example: wield sword
        wear all        : quickly equips your character with the items in
                          your inventory.
        remove <item>   : you may also remove clothing/armor
                                example: remove jacket

Note: There also exists a "NEWBIE" flag for certain items which prevents
      them from being stolen or put into containers.

See Also: NEWBIE, NEWBIE MONEY, NEWBIE COMMUNICATION, EQUPIMENT FLAGS

#
"NEWBIE MONEY" 

Money can be a difficult thing to come by.  As a first level, your
might be able to beg for money from some of the other more experienced
players, BUT do not expect that they will help you out.   The easiest
way to get money is by looting the corpses of the monsters you kill.

                get coins corpse        : will get the coins from the
                                          corpse

If there is more than one corpse in the same 'room' as you, then try:

                get coins 2.corpse      : which will get the coins from
                                          the second corpse, and so on

If you are in a group it would be wise to share the money taken off of
the corpses of monsters you have killed, to do that you would use:

                split <amount> coins    : will divide the amount of coins
                                          evenly among the members of your
                                          group.
                example: split 500 coins

        Also don't forget to look inside the corpses of the monsters that
        you have managed to kill. Some may have equipment that you may
        want. In order to do such a thing:

                look in corpse          : show you what your victim
                                          carried.

        Should your former opponent have better equipment just type
                get <item> corpse       : get a single item from a corpse

                get all corpse          : take all that you can carry
                                          from your former opponent

See Also: NEWBIE EQUIPMENT, NEWBIE, NEWBIE COMMUNICATION, BANK

#
"NEWBIE COMMUNICATION" 

There are important commands to help you to communicate with others.

tell <person> <sentence>: will send a message to only the
person specified and no one else.

        example: tell Pirahna I worship the ground you walk on!

say <sentence>          : will send the message to everyone
                          in that room.

        example: say could I please join your illustrious group?

shout <sentence>        : will tell everyone who is in your area
                          whatever is on your mind.

        example: shout I give my heart to thee, Kate!

gossip <sentence>       : will send the message to everyone in the
                          game.

        example: gossip Where is the monk guild?

dream <sentence>        : will send the message to only those that
                          are asleep, and can only be used if you are
                          asleep yourself.

        example: dream Zzzzzzzzz...

Additionally, there is a channel dedicated solely to newbies.

newbie <sentence>       : will send the message to only those that have
                          the newbie channel toggled on.

See Also: NEWBIE EQUIPMENT, NEWBIE MONEY, NEWBIE

#
"NEWBIE AREAS" 

Welcome to Dark Castle. Listed below you will find exact directions to
some of our newbie areas.  Note that all directions you can move in
(North East South West Up Down) may be abbreviated with n e s w u d.

All directions are from the tavern:
Mud School:   u, n
Gangland:     s, w, w, w, s, s, s, s, s, e
Newbie Caves: s, e, e, e, e, e, n, n, n, e, e, d
Kilderry:     s, w, w, w, w, n, n, n, w

See Also: NEWBIE EQUIPMENT, NEWBIE MONEY, NEWBIE COMMUNICATION, NEWBIE

#
RECALL 

Recall is the mainstream way to get back to the tavern or any safe room of
your choice.  Should you get lost, merely type 'recall.' If you fail, keep
trying until you return magically to the tavern.  Note that you can only
use this command until level 11, at which point it will begin to cost some
amount of gold for you to be able to recall.  The amount of gold will vary
upon the level of the user.  I.e. level 12's using the recall command with
get it at a much cheaper price than a level 50 using the recall command.
Also, setting your home in other clans' clanhalls will get you frozen and
possibly zapped.  It is illegal. Also, recall won't work in safe rooms.
Note, if you have a CANTQUIT, you will recall to the tavern, regardless of
where your home is set.

Syntax:   recall

See Also: NEWBIE, WORD OF RECALL, HOME

#
SWITCH 

Switches your main weapon and secondary weapon positions. You'll need to
visit the skill master, who is usually somewhere west of town to learn
this skill.

Syntax:   switch

See Also: WIELD, DOUBLE WIELD, CONSIDER, SCAN, RELEASE

#
RULES 

1. No Multi-Players : Multis are NOT allowed here. You risk deletion of
   all your characters if you're caught playing more than one
   character.  Please see the 'help multi' file for punishments
   concerning this.

2. Pkilling : Pkilling is legal. The defeated player loses NOTHING, and
   does not leave a corpse (Unless the player is flagged thief - See
   Pstealing below).

3. Pstealing : Players who steal from other players automatically get
   flagged thief. A thief leaves a corpse behind when killed and it's up
   to the player who killed them whether to return the thief's
   belongings or keep them.  It is illegal for a thief with a cantquit
   and thief flag to transfer stolen equipment in any way. (give, drop,
   donate etc.)

4. Cantquit : After a steal or a pkill, a person is flagged as CANTQUIT
   for 5 ticks.  This essentially means that you cannot leave the game
   for 5 ticks, nor are you safe from attackers in a SAFE room.

5. Spamming : Spam of any kind is not allowed on this mud.  If we catch
   you spamming on gossip, say, tell, shout, auction or pray, with emotes
   or socials, we will silence you.  If you persist in spamming we will
   freeze you or demote you some levels.  We will not tolerate spammers.

6. Bugs : Using a bug to your advantage is illegal.  This includes
   anything from large bugs, to even the smallest minute bug.  Using a
   bug or even knowing about a bug without reporting it is illegal, and
   a zap punishable offense.  Note that sometimes reporting bugs even
   yields rewards, but do not always expect it. Do not assume something
   is a "feature" and not a bug; ask a god.

7. Pingpong: Repeatedly killing a player that has a CANTQUIT flag while
   they are otherwise passively waiting for the flag to wear off is
   illegal. In excess it is considered spam, and generally is a form
   of harassment--abusing the particulars of our pkill system. See
   "Help Pingpong" for more information.

8.  Setting your home inside a god's room is illegal.  If caught you
    could be frozen or zapped, depending on which god it is you upset.

9.  Setting your home in, or exploiting, a safe room that is OUTSIDE of
    town is illegal. At the moment there are not supposed to be any such
    rooms.  If you know of one you are expected to report it.  Failure to
    do so is a freezeable offense.  Inside town is considered anything
    within the Sorpigal city walls.  The only exceptions to this rule
    are the monk and ranger guilds, as well as the cabin in the forest
    west of town.

10. On Dark Castle, you are free to say whatever you want to whoever you
    want - with one logical exception.  Insulting or "cussing out" a god
    (to their face or over a public channel) may result in whatever
    punishment the god can and wishes to exact.  You do not need to show
    adulation for immortals, but you do need to respect them.

    Also, you must respect the authority of all immortals.  If you make
    a request to one immortal to overturn a legal issue, and you request
    is refused--your only option is to appeal to a higher-level immort.
    If you do not accept this, and continue to ask other immortals,
    (of the same or lower level as the one that denied you)
    you will be frozen for a week, or worse.  This is known as "playing
    the immortals off each other".

11. Bots (robots) are illegal here.  A 'bot' is a PC used for a purpose
    such as getting on and grabbing equipment then logging off,
    automatically casting spells on another player, or running scripts
    that automatically clear areas. Exploiting a bot (even if it is not
    your own) is also subject to punishment. The god who catches a bot
    or botee will decide the punishment.

12. Storing charmies is not illegal with one exception: storing charmies
    in a clan room (ANY clan room, not just your own) is very illegal and
    may result in being frozen.  There is currently no rule against
    hiding charmies in non-clan rooms.

See Also: MULTIPLAYING, PSTEAL, CANTQUIT, PKILLING, SPAM, BUG, RKILL,
          IMMORTAL, IMPERSONATE, PINGPONG, ROUTER, HARASS

#
MP MULTI MULTIPLAYING "MULTI PLAYING" TRANSFER TRANSFERRING "EQ TRANSFER" 

Multiplaying is illegal here and shall be dealt with harshly.
The definition of multiplaying is simple: Having more than one character
in the game at the same time. This DOES include having one character
linkdead while playing another.

Here are a few examples of multiplaying, though there are certainly
others:
1. Grouping two of your characters.
2. Using one character to cast spells on another.
3. Using one character to perform a service for another while both logged
   on.
4. Letting one character regenerate while playing another.
5. Transferring equipment from a character with a CANTQUIT *and* THIEF
   flag.
6. Playing one character while rolling stats for a new one.
7. Rolling multiple characters at once.
8. Having one character linkdead while playing another.

There is one and only one type of multiplaying that is allowed and that is

when transferring equipment between two characters. You may bring both
your characters on in the Tavern, the Meta shop, Cozy Corner, or your
clanhall for about one minute. When you are done you MUST log out your
extra character. You are NOT required to pray, and is desired that you
do not, unless you need to drop link to change equipment, and wish to
not be booted.

Having two characters on two computers is still multiplaying unless
there are two DIFFERENT people playing them. An example using two randomly
chosen names:

This is LEGAL:
Computer One:  Character:  Tool      RL Player:  Sarah
Computer Two:  Character:  Gool      RL Player:  Phil

This is ILLEGAL:
Computer One:  Character:  Tool      RL Player:  Phil
Computer Two:  Character:  Gool      RL Player:  Phil

The penalties for multiplaying are harsh and final:

At least one character will be zapped and other characters will either
be frozen for at least one week or they will be demoted at levels, or a
combination of the two. Bitching and/or whining will probably result in
harsher sentences and could result in additional zappings.

If you feel you have been unjustly convicted of multiplaying, you may
appeal via email or mail to Pirahna.  Email addresses are listed in
HELP EMAIL.

See Also: NEWS, RULES, EMAIL, ROUTER

#
ROLL AUTOROLL AUTOROLLER 

The use of script-based autorollers for character creation are legal,
but you may only have one connection to Dark Castle open at a time.

See Also: MULTI, RULES, STATS

#
ARCHIVE INACTIVE 

If you will be leaving Dark Castle for more than three weeks but plan on
returning thereafter, please use the archive command, which is available
at the login menu to archive any and all characters you do not want to
have deleted due to inactivity.

When you are archived, your character file will be compressed and placed
in an archive directory. Once you are archived, you will not be able to
play the character again until you have sent an email message asking to
be reactivated or asked a level 107 or higher online to unarchive the
character.

Archiving is also an attractive option for those players who feel the need
to limit their gaming time. Archiving your characters before finals week,

for example, is often a wise idea. It will require you to at least wait
until a high enough god is available to unarchive your character.

See Also: HELP EMAIL

#
ALIAS ALIASES 

Dark Castle reserves space for every player to set 25
aliases to help players without access to a MUDding client.

Syntax:   alias <name of alias, no spaces> = <Single command to perform>
          Note: The '=' is important.

Example:  alias eb = eat bread

To remove an alias, you simply type alias followed by
the name of the alias, with no additional arguments.

Syntax:   alias <Name of alias to remove>
Example:  alias eb

For a listing of all current aliases, type alias by itself.
To purge your entire alias list, type 'alias deleteall' to erase all
currently defined alias positions.

#
EMOTE 

A way, of sorts, to do your own social actions.

Syntax:   emote <message>

For example, if Llevity typed 'emote jumps up and down.' everyone in the
room would see 'Llevity jumps up and down.'

See Also: SOCIALS

#
SOCIALS SOCIAL 

Socials are commands for displaying emotion or action to another
player in the game.  The message is tailored to who in the room
receives it.  For example:  lick.  If the character Pirahna licked
the character Sabranth, Sabranth would see 'Pirahna licks you.'
Pirahna would see 'You lick him.' and everyone else in the room
would see 'Pirahna licks Sabranth.'

Typing "social" will give you a listing of all the socials currently
in the game.

If you have any socials you would like to add to this list please send
them to Wynn. Or you can add submissions via the DC webpage.

See Also: EMOTE, WWW

#
ARENA 

Arenas are opportunities given you by the gods to show your prowess in
battle.  The object is to kill everyone else and be the last person
standing.   The last person standing may get a prize.  The prize
ranges from the joy of winning to money or possibly a brownie point
given by the god overseeing the arena.

It is not possible to inflict any harm to other combatants until the
arena gates have been closed.  Also, you will find it impossible to
steal.  Recalling from an arena is not an option, and teleport merely
sends you to another room in the chaos.

If an arena is opened with no statement of the host, assume that no
rules have been decreed.  Some immortals may demand that you not
"group", which also extends to not following friends or stalking prey.
Client aids which allow you to "follow" an enemy without actually
using the command are acceptable in this case.  Generally, Clan Chaos
is the only arena with rules (ask the sponsoring immortal for further
clarification).

Side note: gossiping or praying for arenas is generally not the most
effective way to persuade the gods to run one.

See Also: BROWNIE, QUEST

#
ARB ARBITRATE ARBITRATION ARBITRATOR 

Do *not* pray for arbitrations.  You will be ignored, most likely, if not
silenced if you abuse the channel in this fashion.

A player may ask an immortal to assist in the completion of a sale of an
item or character.  They are under no obligation to assist you, but if
you're nice and patient enough, most visible ones will.  Like most
transactions with immortals, it is best to start with the lowest level
ones first, and work up from there.

Upon request, an immortal arbitrator may verify that the deal is correct
(i.e. checking the goods to see if the seller is lying), but they are also
under no obligation to offer this service.  The arbitrator may NOT give
out statistics, simply nod or shake their head on the deal.

Have your transaction ready before you consult an immortal for an arb.  It
is annoying for them to take time out to assist unprepared mortals with
unclear information on a sale.  This means convert platinum beforehand.

Arbitrations will only be conducted with gold, equipment, or, in the case
of trades, characters.  We cannot and will not be responsible for any
transaction involving real cash.

Special Note: Do NOT give the arbitrating immortal your password!!!
There is no need for this!  The buyer gives the payment for the immortal
to handle, and the seller gives the buyer the goods/password.  Once the
password is changed, then the immortal gives the seller the payment.

See Also: HELP, PASSWORD, RULES

#
CONVERT 

If you have reached level 50 and no longer find experience points quite
as useful as they used to be, they can be cashed in at a rate of 400
million points per 1 million gold.  Be warned that total experience
resets shortly after 2 billion XP total. If you go over 2 billion XP
and your total is reset to zero, you will not be reimbursed for this
XP loss.

#
RIPOSTE 

This is an automatic skill that has a chance of occurring when a warrior
parries any incoming melee attack, which translates into an extra attack
on the foe who was defended against.  There is no lag associated with the
Riposte, and the warrior must be wielding a weapon to parry.

See Also: WARRIOR, CLASSES, SKILLS

#
MARRIAGE MARRIAGES WEDDING WEDDINGS 

Ah, so you and your little mud squeeze have decided to tie the knot.
Tres charmante.  How to go about it?  You need to arrange with an
immortal to run the wedding.  If you want to exchange rings, find two
which the two of you can wear, and have them restrung ahead of time.
When you find an immortal who has both sufficient time and energy to
run the wedding, arrange the time with them, and then set about
inviting your friends and clannies.  Please see your 104+ imm of choice
about performing your ceremony.

#
RESTRING 

Upper level gods possess the mystic power of restringing, which is
changing the name or appearance, but not the nature of items.  If
you want to ask a god to restring your items, you're welcome to, but
be aware that they are under absolutely no obligation to do so.  Some
gods have different policies.  Some gods charge a fee per restring.
Other might reserve the right to decide what the items are
renamed to.  Be aware that implementers often have things on the mud
they'd rather be doing than restrings.  Only patrons and up have the
ability to do restrings.  Do NOT pester gods for restrings.  This will
only result in an incredibly cranky god and no restring.  Do not pray
for restrings.

You may not have a restring that...

--exactly resembles the loaded descriptions of game/quest/godload
--affects a quest (questload) item in any way
--does not have an exact matching noun in both keyword and short
  descriptions --resembles a player corpse
--resembles an immortal token or other special immortal item
--is just numbers or symbols, with no words
--is racist, slandering, or excessively offensive

Honestly, folks, restrings are meant to make the game more
creative and personalized.  They're not here to prevent pthieves
from having any fun, to carry out your hateful agendas, or make
fake-selling a whole lot easier.  Like anything else, this is a
privilege that can be restricted or taken away.

#
BROWNIE POINT "BROWNIE POINT" VOUCHER "CLAN VOUCHER" 

Brownie points are a game item which players may trade in to the
quest staff for the opportunity to quest for a quest item.  Four
brownies are required in order to be able to request a quest, and
must be presented to the immortal running the quest upon demand.
Brownies can be stolen, scrapped, and remain in corpses, so they
should be guarded well.

Clan Rewards Vouchers are special rewards you can receive as a part
of a team or clan related contest or activity run by an immortal.
These vouchers are redeemable for any costs associated with a clan.
This includes: clan creation fees, clan hall costs, or any fines.

See Also: ARENA, TRIVIA, QUEST, CLAN

#
CLASSES CLASS 

There are 11 classes currently implemented. In addition to the basic four
classes (Warrior, Cleric, Magic User and Thief), seven additional classes
exist. Anti-Paladin, Paladin, Barbarian, Monk, Ranger, and as of 2002,
Bard and Druid.

Each have different skills/spells. Some are more challenging than others.
For more information about each class read the help files.

See Also: RACES, WARRIOR, CLERIC, MAGIC USER, THIEF, ANTI-PALADIN,
          BARBARIAN, PALADIN, MONK, RANGER, BARD, DRUID

#
DONATION DONATIONS 

Are coming soon.  The appropriate information will be posted in this
helpfile as soon as they become available.
 -Apocalypse

See Also: WEB, EMAIL

#
RACE RACES BONUSES "RACIAL BONUSES" 

When creating a new character, you can choose to be one of 9 races.
Based on the bonuses/penalties they get to their stats (listed in
each race's individual help file) some races are more suited to
particular classes than others.  For example, hobbits get a high
bonus to dex, making them excellent thieves.

Races vary in their respective sizes and thus much of the equipment
you will be able to wear will be dependant upon the size of your race.

Each race has a potential maximum of 125 skill points alotted in a
different manner for each race.  This information is also explained in
each race's individual help file.

Most races also get innate skills or abilities. The innate abilities
of your race can be viewed with the 'innate' command.

See Also: CLASSES, HUMAN, ELF, DWARF, HOBBIT, PIXIE, OGRE, ORC, GNOME,
          TROLL, INNATE, SIZE

#
HUMAN HUMANS 

Humans evolve and prosper in many locations around the world.
Their bodies are tall and sturdy, with few defects.  In a sense
they are the most average and yet most adaptable among all the races.

Humans gain no bonuses or penalties to their beginning statistics.
They are the only beings capable of using all sizes of equipment.

Minimum Attribute Requirements:  None
Maximum Attributes: 25 Str, 25 Dex, 25 Con, 25 Int, 25 Wis
Race Creation Modifiers:  None

Innate Ability:  The ability to wear any equipment of any size

Note: Only Elves and Humans can become Paladins, and only Humans
      and Orcs can become Anti-Paladins.

See Also: RACES

#
ELF ELFS ELVES 

Elves are very similar to Humans in appearance, with the exceptions
of being somewhat taller, slimmer, and having delicate features and
pointed ears.  They prefer to live out in the wilderness, but many
Elves have learned to adapt to the bustling cities of the world.

Elves are enlightened and dexterous beings, but are somewhat more
frail than Humans. In addition, they have a heightened resistance
to energy and magic, but are weaker against acid and poison.

Minimum Attr. Requirements:  10 Dex, 10 Int
Maximum Attributes:          24 Str, 27 Dex, 23 Con, 27 Int, 24 Wis
Race Creation Modifiers:     -1 Str, +1 Dex, -1 Con, +1 Int

Innate Ability:  Focus

Note: Only Elves and Humans may become Paladins.

See Also: RACES

#
DWARF DWARFS DWARVES 

Dwarves are a shorter, stockier cousin of Humankind -- with a much
more solid physiology.  On average, Dwarves stand about four feet
tall, with thick arms and legs, and wide backs.  Many Dwarves prefer
to live in rocky terrain: badlands, hills, and mountains -- as they
believe they draw their strength from the earth, as well as from their
beards.

Dwarves are a hardly lot: strong and healthy.  They also possess
a wiser mind, but typically do not breed analytical types. In
addition, they have a heightened resistance to acid and poison,
but are weaker against fire and cold.

Minimum Attr. Requirements:  10 Con, 10 Wis
Maximum Attributes:          27 Str, 22 Dex, 28 Con, 26 Wis, 22 Int
Race Creation Modifiers:     +2 Str, -2 Dex, +1 Con, +1 Wis, -2 Int

Innate Ability:  Repair

See Also: RACES

#
HOBBIT HOBBITS HOBBITSES 

A Hobbit, or Halfling, is a child-like Human in appearance, yet
with adult features.  Some Hobbits have pointed ears, while others
have strangely-plump bellies, or excessively hairy shins and feet.
Nearly all Hobbits enjoy a good smoke, a big meal, and a good
prank or two.  Hobbits tend to live in fields and vales, or in
shallow underground homes called burrows.

Hobbits are wily and very agile by nature -- though not all follow
a roguish trade.  They are weaker and less sturdy than some other
races. In addition, they have a heightened resistance to fire and
poison, but are weaker against cold and magic.

Minimum Attr. Requirements:  12 Dex
Maximum Attributes:          22 Str, 30 Dex, 23 Con, 25 Int, 25 Wis
Race Creation Modifiers:     -2 Str, +3 Dex, -1 Con

Innate Ability:  Shadowslip

See Also: RACES

#
PIXIE PIXIES 

Pixies are, at best, described as extremely lithe and fragile
Elves.  They are not at all tiny in height, nor do they possess
gossamer wings on their backs.  However, they do retain their
silly and playful attitudes from legend.  Their features are
much more delicate and exaggerated than Elves: much pointier ears,
long chins, and jewel-like eyes.  Pixies tend to live in remote
parts of the world, such as untamed forests and hills, and dark
swamps.

Pixies are quite wise and intelligent, and quick of hand and foot
as well.  However, they are terribly weak and not at all sturdy in
combat. In addition, they have a heightened resistance to energy
and magic, but are weaker against fire and poison.

Minimum Attr. Requirements:  12 Int
Maximum Attributes:          20 Str, 28 Dex, 20 Con, 30 Int, 27 Wis
Race Creation Modifiers:     -4 Str, +2 Dex, -2 Con, +3 Int, +1 Wis

Innate Ability:  Evasion

Note: Pixies may not become barbarians.

See Also: RACES

#
OGRE OGRES 

Ogres are actually not so tall, but they are the largest of all
the adventuring races.  The shortest Ogres stand a bit over eight
feet, while the tallest loom at nearly twelve.  Besides being very
tall, Ogres appear much like ugly Humans, although somewhat more
brutish, hairy, and devolved.  The word "neanderthal" is often an
adequate definition.  Ogres tend to live in places where food is
abundant, because their appetites are much greater than those of
normal Humans.

Ogres possess awesome strength and constitution, yet are feeble
of mind and slow-moving. In addition, they have a heightened
resistance to fire and cold, but are weaker against energy and
magic.

Minimum Attr. Requirements:  12 Str
Maximum Attributes:          30 Str, 23 Dex, 27 Con, 22 Int, 23 Wis
Race Creation Modifiers:     +3 Str, -2 Dex, +1 Con, -2 Int

Innate Ability:  Powerwield

Note: Ogres may not become thieves.

See Also: RACES

#
ORC ORCS ORK ORKS 

Orcs are the perverted form of the elven race, and as such are
their statistical opposites. Orcs are imbued with a strength over-
shadowed only by that of ogres and trolls, and a stupidity and
carelessness which usually gets them out-bested by all but these same
races in non-physical confrontations.

Orcs are known to be extremely strong and robust creatures. They
gravitate towards the dark side, commonly resulting in their unlawful
choices of profession. In addition, they have a heightened resistance
to fire and cold, but are weaker against energy and magic.

Minimum Attr. Requirements:  10 Str, 10 Con
Maximum Attributes:          27 Str, 25 Dex, 26 Con, 24 Int, 23 Wis
Race Creation Modifiers:     +1 Str, +1 Con, -2 Wis

Innate Ability:  Bloodlust

See Also: RACES

#
GNOME GNOMES 

Gnomes are the close cousins of the slightly shorter hobbits, but
while hobbits are usually inclined towards the easy life, gnomes have
a long tradition of devoting their life to scholarship and scientific
study. The gnomes' cousins in other realms have often lacked wisdom.
This often resulted in much of their knowledge being used to create
inventions that had a tendency to backfire.  Many Dark Castle gnomes
however, have developed an acute moral compass, as well as a healthy
portion of common sense.

While not as strong or agile as some of the other races, gnomes are
renowned throughout the realms for the wise and intelligent natures.
In addition, they have a heightened resistance to acid and magic,
but are weaker against energy and poison.

Minimum Attr. Requirements:  12 Wis
Maximum Attributes:          22 Str, 22 Dex, 24 Con, 27 Int, 30 Wis
Race Creation Modifiers:     -2 Str, -2 Dex, +3 Wis, +1 Int

Innate Ability:  Illusion

See Also: RACES

#
TROLL TROLLS 

Trolls are large bipedal carnivorous creatures that most other races
know to stay well away from.  While their seemingly slight green body
seems at first glance to be somewhat frail, trolls are among the
hardiest creatures in the realms.

Like ogres, trolls are not the smartest bunch, however their
high strength and extreme hardiness more than make up for any mental
skills they may lack. In addition, they have a heightened resistance to
energy and poison, but are weaker against fire and acid.

Note:  Unlike other creatures of the realms, the primary stat loss for
       trolls is dexterity (rather than constitution).  As such, they
       will face permanent deletion if their dexterity goes low enough.

Minimum Attr. Requirements:  12 Con
Maximum Attributes:          28 Str, 25 Dex, 30 Con, 20 Int, 22 Wis
Race Creation Modifiers:     +2 Str, +3 Con, -2 Wis, -3 Int

Innate Ability:  Regeneration

See Also: RACES

#
SKEWER 

Warriors with this skill practiced will automatically attempt to jab their
weapon into the heart of whoever they are fighting.  This skill happens
during battle, and causes massive damage when it hits.  Due to the nature
of the attack however, it only works if the damage type of the weapon is
piercing, stinging, or slashing. Skewer also has a very very small
chance of instantly slaying one's opponent.

See Also: WARRIOR, SKILLS

#
BLINDFIGHTING 

This automatic skill will alert the user to the presence of others
in places where he can not see. Beyond that it's supposed to do something
else, but I'm not sure what, as it hasn't been implemented yet.

See Also: SKILLS, SENSE LIFE

#
VITALSTRIKE "VITAL STRIKE" 

By taking advantage of their knowledge concerning the most vital
locations on their opponent's body, the thief can adjust his attack
while he is already in combat so as to target these areas
specifically. Thus for a brief period of combat the thief's attacks do
incredible damage. This is a skill which can only be performed on special
occasions for it requires a certain adroitness on the part of his hands
which is not experienced often.

Syntax:   vitalstrike (while in battle)

See Also: SKILLS

#
HARMTOUCH "HARM TOUCH" 

Anti-paladins who have shown extreme devotion to the forces of darkness
may on occasion call upon the magnificant powers of evil which reside
within them in order to inflict unbearable degrees of pain upon their
foes. This comes in possibly the most frightening form to those who
experience it: the simple touch of the forefinger to their opponents
flesh. In some instances the effect is so enjoyable by the anti-paladin's
god, that she will renew the anti-paladin's life-force as a reward for
the act.

Syntax:   harmtouch <victim>
          harmtouch (while in combat)

See Also: SKILLS

#
"GLOBE OF DARKNESS" 

This skill, which has its origins in the chaos of the most evil of
the under- ground races, will create a sphere of darkness through which
light will have trouble passing. Cast once, this spell might not have
a significant effect on areas which are already extremely lit, but in
dimly lit areas, or cast multiple times, the effect should be
noticeable. This spell is most often used by those whose advantage it
is to be fighting with the absence of sight.

Syntax:   cast 'globe of darkness'

See Also: DARKNESS, BLINDFIGHTING

#
"IRON ROOTS" IRON ROOTS 

Giant tree roots spring forth from the ground holding the caster of
this spell firmly in place. Anyone who tries to knock them over is sure
to fail. This spell is cast once to summon the roots, and again to
dismiss them.

Syntax:   cast 'iron roots'

See Also: DRUID, CLASSES, SKILLS, SPELLS, STABILITY

#
SUMMON SUMMONABLE 

By bending the very fabric of time and space, the caster of this spell can
summon their target to her current location.

Note: You cannot be summoned unless you have "toggle summonable" turned ON
and are NOT in a safe room.

Syntax:   cast 'summon' <target>

See Also: DRUID, CLASSES, SKILLS, SPELLS

#
GUARD 

In the chaos of battle, different members of one's group may get attacked.
Warriors have the ability to guard those around him or her, in an effort to
save them from being hit.

Syntax:   guard <target>

#
"BLADE SHIELD" 

Due to their expertise in the arts of weaponry and armor, warriors can
form a defensive wall of swinging weapons in the midst of battle. This
barrier guards them from attack for a short period of time.

Syntax:   Type "blade shield" in battle.

#
DOUBLE "DOUBLE ATTACK" 

Warrior, Ranger, Paladin, Anti-Paladin, Barbarian skill.

Every round, you'll get a chance at a second attack with your main wielded
weapon. The probability of getting that attack depends on how well you've
practiced this skill.

See Also: TRIPLE ATTACK, "DOUBLE WIELD", SKILLS.

#
TRIPLE "TRIPLE ATTACK" 

Every round, you'll get a chance at a third attack with your main wielded
weapon. The probability of getting that attack depends on how well you've
practiced this skill. You must have Double Attack practiced in order for
this skill to be effective.

See Also: DOUBLE ATTACK, "DOUBLE WIELD", SKILLS

#
SKILL SKILLS SPELLS SPELL 

Skills (and spells) are the abilities that a particular class or person
has that set him or her apart from the others.  Most skills are received
from gaining experience and leveling.  The skills you receive are
dependant upon your class.

Some skills are available to people through trainers and not every skill
can be learned by everyone.  It's up to you to discover what you can and
cannot learn.  Many skills also require a deed, payment, or action be
performed before they can be successfully learned.  These requirements
are called SKILL QUESTS.

Your knowledge of a skill is based on a scale out of 100.  The level to
which you have learned a skill will appear on your PRACTICE list as
a descriptor such as: "horrible", "bad", "good", "superb", etc.

Each skill, spell, or ability also has two REQUISITE attributes that
are associated with it.  Improving these stats will allow you higher
levels within the affiliated skill. (see help REQUISITES and LEARN)

More detailed information about LEARNING can be seen under "help LEARN".

See Also: CLASS, SKILL QUEST, PRACTICE, LEARN, REQUISITES

#
LEARN LEARNING 

Each class can learn their skills to different degrees. For example,
a warrior might be able to learn their kick skill to "good" or a maximum
of 80/100.

The first 50% of your available skill knowledge (in the above example for
warriors, this would mean the first 40 points out of 80 max) can be
gained via "practices" at your guild or simply by advancing the skill
through use.

The next 25% of your available skill knowledge (in the above example for
warriors, this would mean the next 20 points out of 80 max...taking them to
60/80) can only be gained by advancing the skill through use.

The final 25% of your available skill knowledge (in the above example for
warriors, this would mean the last 20 points out of 80 max) only becomes
available when you have "meta'ed" the attributes associated with the skill
in question.  Each skill has two attributes associated with its success.
It is only when these attributes are improved (or meta'ed) that part or
all of the last 25% of your skill points are available to you.

In the above example for kick this would mean: (step-by-step)

1) Warrior wants to learn kick, which is available for him to learn to a
   max of 80/100.
2) Warrior completes the "kick" skill quest and now has a "1" in the skill.
3) Warrior learns or practices kick up to 50% of its available max
   (of 80/100) thus giving him a "40" in the skill. This would appear as

   "poor" on the warrior's "practice" list.
4) Warrior continues to use kick and gains the next 25% of its available
   max giving him a "60" in the skill.  This would appear as "fair" on the
   warrior's "practice" list.
5) Warrior then meta's (improves) his Dexterity (Dex) and/or Strength (Str)
   to its available max.  This now allows him to "learn through use" part
   of or all of the remaining 20 points in kick, giving him a total of
   aprox 75 to 80 (out of 100).  This would often appear as "very good"
   on the warrior's "practice" list.

Skills that are available to only one class are capable of being
improved to "Masterful" status.  It is by improving (meta'ing) both
primary and secondary attributes that a player will be able to achieve
this level within their skill.

      Hint: Each class has at least one or two spells or skills that are
            associated with each attribute.  So we highly reccomend
            improving as many of your attributes as possible.

If the above information doesn't make sense to you, don't worry, just enjoy
laying down beatings with your character!

See Also: SKILLS, SKILL QUEST, PRACTICE, CLASS, AUTOIMPROVE

#
REPAIR "INNATE REPAIR" 

This command is used when you are standing next to a "repair guy".  Use
it to repair damaged equipment.  Note that this might be very expensive,
however different repair shops charge different rates, shop around.
DO -NOT- give your equipment to him, as he will keep it.

Syntax:  repair <item>

You can also have the repair guy give you an estimate for the cost of
repair.

Syntax:  price <item>

Dwarves have the innate ability to repair a piece of equipment once
per day.

Syntax:   innate repair <item>

See Also: PRICE, CLASSES, RACES, INNATES

#
VALUE 

This command is used to get an estimate on your corpse price from
the mortician.  It can also be used to estimate how much you will
receive in gold when selling items to a shop-keeper.

(While in the morgue, with the undertaker)
Syntax:   value

(While in a shop)
Syntax:   value <item>

See Also: MORGUE, UNDERTAKER, BUY, SELL, LIST, SHOP

#
PRICE 

This command is used to get an estimate on the repair price
for a piece of eq.

Syntax:   price <item>

See Also: REPAIR

#
SCAN 

This skill allows you to carefully examine the exits to the room you
are in and determine the people/mobs around you.  This skill must be
practiced at the Skill Master.

Syntax:   scan

See Also: SKILLS

#
DEATHSTROKE 

This skill allows you to apply a well aimed stroke at your opponent's
kidney, causing tremendous amount of damage. You wont be able to do
anything for three rounds of melee. The success of this hit depends on
how well you've learned this skill and your opponents level.

Syntax:   deathstroke <target>
          deathstroke (while in combat)

See Also: WARRIOR.

#
TAME 

Tame allows the skilled ranger to calm a wild beast in such a way that it
is completely loyal to the ranger.  This is similar to the traditional
"charm" spell, but is much more effective for natural beasts.

See Also: SKILLS, ORDER

#
WIZLIST 

This command provides a list of the implementers and higher immortals.
They are the people responsible for running the mud. If you have a
problem, try to eliminate all possible explanations to it before you
approach an immortal. While they are here to help you enjoy the mud,
make sure you don't hassle them with trivial requests.

Syntax:   wizlist

See Also: IMPLEMENTOR, IMMORTAL.

#
CHANNEL CHANNELS 

There are a number of communication channels that are available to
players.

These channels are gossip, auction, shout, trivia, and info. Each of the
channels has its intended use. Please use them appropriately. Spamming
will get you in trouble very quickly.

The channel command allows you to toggle your channels on and off. Type
channel by itself to see which channels you are currently listening to.

Syntax:   channel <channel>

See Also: GOSSIP, AUCTION, SHOUT, DREAM, TRIVIA, INFORM, IMM, PRAY,
          NEWBIE COMMUNICATION.

#
JUNK SACRIFICE SAC 

Destroys object, taking it out of your inventory and into never-never
land.  You will get 1 coin for your sacrifice.

Syntax:   junk <object>
          sac <object>

See Also: DONATE.

#
DONATE 

Donate causes the object you donate to disappear from your inventory and
appear in the donation room.

Syntax:   donate <object>

See Also: JUNK, SACRIFICE.

#
DEATH 

Pkilling:
   Pkilling is legal. The defeated player loses NOTHING, and does
   not leave a corpse (Unless the player is flagged thief - See HELP
   RULES)

Death by Monster:
   If you are killed in normal battle, your experience will be cut in
   half.  If you are over level 20, you have a <YOUR LEVEL> percentage
   chance of losing a constitution point (or dexterity point if you are
   a troll).  For example, a level 24 player has a 24% chance of losing
   a con or dex point, whereas a level 50 player stands a 50% chance
   of losing a con or dex point. If you lose a con or dex point, you will
   also have a chance of losing another statistic point as well.  If you
   are level 50, you have chance to lose a point off a second random stat
   as well.  This may or may not be in addition to con or dex loss.

Pthief Death:
   If you are flagged pthief and killed by a fellow clanmember or commit
   suicide, it will count as being killed by a monster.  Pthieves always
   leave corpses when killed and lose half their experience, no matter
   what.  Also, a pthief has a chance of random stat loss if they are
   killed by a player, but they are guaranteed stat loss if they are killed
   by a mobile.

   NOTE: Player characters under level 10 do not leave a corpse when they
         are killed by a mobile. Likewise, you may not consent anyone under
         level 10 to loot your corpse.

   NOTE: If your constitution drops to four because of dying, your
         character will be -permanently- dead (except for trolls).

   NOTE: If you are a troll and your dexterity drops to four because
         of dying, your character will turn to stone, and thus be
         -permanently- dead.

See Also: RKILL, RDEATH, CON DEATH

#
NOTELL "NO TELL" 

Immortal command:
Makes the target player unable to communicate via tell.
Syntax:   notell <player>

Mortal command:
A self imposed version of the above Immortal command.
Toggling this flag will make you unable to send or receive tells.

Syntax:   toggle notell

#
IGNORE 

Ignore will allow you to ignore one or more persons whose name you
specify.  Ie, 'ignore michael' will ignore all personal tells and most
public channel comments from anybody named Michael.  This is especially
useful when someone is spamming you.

Syntax:   ignore <player>

See Also: CHANNEL, SOCIAL

#
PRAY 

Pray will allow you to send a message to any and all gods that are on.
Note that if you spam them, there are consequences.   Know also that
any god can choose to ignore all or select prayers.  Be wise in
choosing when to pray.

It's better to see if any gods are visible and tell then
what you need assistance with first, before praying. In addition
most of the implementer level gods request that you seek assistance
with a lower level god prior to asking them.

Syntax:   pray <message>

See Also: CHANNELS, IMMORTAL

#
COUNT 

Count will display how many visible players there are on, and their
class breakdown.  It will also show what the max has been since the
last reboot.

Syntax:   count

See Also: WHO

#
DISBAND 

Disband will allow you to, if you are the leader, disband all or parts
of a group.  For example, disband <NAME> will make only that person stop
following you, where as disband <all> will dissolve the group entirely.

Syntax:   disband <player> (remove one player from group)
          disband <all> (remove all players, dissolve group)

See Also: GROUP, FOUND, PROMOTE

#
PROMOTE 

Promote works only if you are the leader of a group, and it serves to make
the follower you specify the new leader.  For example, "promote tarrasque"
would make the tarrasque the new leader of your group (please note that
the "promotee" must be a member of the group already).

Syntax:   promote <group member>

See Also: GROUP, FOUND, DISBAND

#
FOUND 

Found allows you to start a group of your very own.  You can then group
followers using the group command.

Syntax:   found <group name>

See Also: GROUP, DISBAND, PROMOTE

#
WHOSOLO 

Whosolo will display all the players in the game who are visible and
not currently grouped.

Syntax:   whosolo (list of all solo players)
          whosolo <player> (shows whos list for specific player)

See Also: WHO, COUNT, WHOGROUP

#
WHOGROUP 

Whogroup will display all the visible players in the game who are
currently in a group, as well as their group name, number of pkills,
and average victim level.

Syntax:   whogroup

See Also: WHO, COUNT, WHOSOLO

#
HITALL 

Hitall is a very powerful skill much like berserk, with one major
difference: it hits -everybody- in the room who is not in your group.
As such, be very careful when using it in populated areas.

Syntax:   hitall

See Also: SKILLS, BERSERK

#
"PICK LOCKS" PICK 

For picking locks.  Not all locks can be picked.

Example:

>pick door
>pick safe

Syntax:   pick <barrier> <direction>

See Also: OPEN, CLOSE, LOCK, UNLOCK

#
SNEAK 

Used for sneaking (moving in and out of rooms without any mob/player
taking notice.)  If you successfully sneak, then you'll continue to
sneak for a little while.

Syntax:   sneak

See Also: HIDE, SKILLS, CLASSES

#
JOIN 

This command allow a character to join in the fight during battle.  Only
the player you are joining will get hit, unless he/she flees or dies.

Syntax:   join <player>

#
HIDE 

When you type hide there is a chance that you hide in the room. If hidden
you can only be "sensed" by the "sense life" spell affecting a mob/player.
Even if sensed your identity will remain hidden.  Hide is broken by
typing a command that others could see, such as say, but you will not be
notified when you are no longer hiding.

Example:

  > hide
  Ok.
  >  (you wait for ex. 5 mins and remain hidden for 5 mins)
  >  say hello
  You come out of hiding.

Syntax:   hide

See Also: SNEAK, SKILLS

#
LOOK 

For studying your surroundings. Examples:
look
look AT angel
look IN bag
look THROUGH tent
look OUT
look to the south   (or just: look south)

Note that if you LOOK AT CORPSE you will not see its inventory.
To see what's inside a container (i.e. Corpse) use LOOK IN <OBJECT>.

Syntax:   look                 (at room)
          look <mob/pc/object> (look at specific item/person)
          look <direction>     (look toward specific direction)
          look in <container>  (examine contents of a container)
          look through <object you can enter>
          look out             (from a room in which
                                you can type 'leave')
  THIEF-> look at <mob/pc> <opened container in inventory>
  ONLY

You may not notice a hidden being looking at you.

See Also: EXAMINE, READ

#
FILL 

This command lets you fill a drink container with liquid,
typically from a fountain.

Syntax:   fill <drink container> <fountain or water source>

See Also: POUR

#
OPEN 

Used to open doors and other such barriers, as well as certain
closable containers.

Syntax:   open <name of door or container>
Syntax:   open <name of door> [direction]
Example:  open chest
Example:  open door south
Example:  open trapdoor
Example:  open cloud up

Note that when there is more than 1 door with the same name,
if you do not specify the direction, there will automatically
be a default direction and it might not be the direction you
intended.

See Also: CLOSE

#
CLOSE 

Used to close doors and other such barriers, as well as certain
closable containers.

Syntax:   close <name of door or container>
Syntax:   close <name of door> [direction]
Example:  close chest
Example:  close door south
Example:  close trapdoor
Example:  close cloud up

Note that when there is more than 1 door with the same name,
if you do not specify the direction, there will automatically
be a default direction and it might not be the direction you
intended.

See Also: OPEN

#
NORTH SOUTH EAST WEST UP DOWN 

To walk in a given direction.  For example, should you want to walk north
all you need to do is type the word north and it will take you to the room
north of you.

#
WHO 

Lists the people currently in the game. The List provides the name and
title in addition to the level, class. Some people may be hidden or
invisible to you, or anonymous, at which case they will not show up on

the list.

There are several arguments you can give 'who' to isolate particular
things you are looking for:

<name>               - lists all people who have a name equal
                       to or begining with specified name
<number>             - lists all people of that level or higher
<class>              - lists all people of that class
<penis/vagina/other> - lists male/female/it people
lfg                  - lists those 'looking for a group'

Examples:

>who 101
Lists all the visible immortals on.

>who mage
Lists all the visible mages on.

>who vagina
Lists all female characters (that are not anonymous)

Syntax:   who <level|class|anonymous|name|gender-organ>

See Also: RACES, CLASSES, LEVELS, NAME, TITLE, COUNT, ANON.

#
PENIS VAGINA 

Besides being organs that most people have 1 or the other of,
you can also use 1 or the other after typing who.

As in:    who penis
          who vagina

See Also: WHO

#
ANON ANONYMOUS 


This function, applied through toggle, will hide your class and level
from the prying eyes of the other players on Dark Castle.  The advantage
of it is people won't know what to expect of you, but the disadvantage
is the same. Anonymous players will only list percentages instead of actual
stats when using the 'report' and 'group' commands.

See Also: TOGGLE, WHO, LEVELS, CLASSES, COUNT.

#
NAME 

You can change the name that other players see, using this command.
You are not able to use this command until level 5, and if you
put something offensive in your name, a god will take away your ability to
change it.

If your name is Morcallen:
>name Mr. %
would change your name to 'Mr. Morcallen.'

For those of you who wish to change your mud birth given name entirely
see RENAME for the procedure and cost.

Syntax:   name <string>. Where string is a string that includes your real
          name.
          "%" is used to indicate where the real name should be.

Note: It is against the rules to abuse the name command to make yourself
appear linkdead.

See Also: TITLE, WHO, RENAME.

#
TITLE 

This will change your title.  Your title is the string that follows your
name, and is seen on the who list, and when a player enters the room
that you are in.  To change your title, type title followed by the text
that you want to appear as your title.

Syntax:   title <message>

See Also: NAME, WHO

#
GIVE 

If you feel benevolent, you may give stuff to someone in need.

Example:  give bread beggar.
          give 1000 coins friend

Syntax:   give <item/# coins> <recipiant>

#
SAVE 

Save your persona.  This includes experience points, strength, gold, etc.
Most equipment you may have gathered is saved (keys are a notable
exception).  Remember to save often or you may regret it!

Syntax:   Save

#
INVENTORY 

If you're uncertain about what you're carrying, or simply want to check
that no thieves have got to your backpack.

If you have open containers in your inventory, thieves have the ability
to peek into them.

Syntax:   Inventory

See Also: EQUIPMENT

#
EQUIPMENT 

When you want to know what armor, weapon, charms etc. you're wearing.

Syntax:   equipment

See Also: INVENTORY, ITEM FLAGS, NEWBIE EQUIPMENT

#
WEAR 

If you want to wear some clothes, armor or the likes.  Note that if the
item is class restrictive, you will receive the message 'You are
forbidden' while trying to wear it.  If you are a monk, and the item is
more than a monk's allowed amount of AC, then you will be told that 'You
cannot wear such restrictive armor.'  Each piece of equipment is only
wearable by characters of specific sizes. If you try to wear an item of
the wrong size you will be told that the item 'does not fit'. Lastly, if
the item is anti your alignment, than you will try to wear the item, but
it will 'zap' you, and fall to the ground.

For example:  wear boots
              wear backpack about
              wear all

Syntax:   wear <item> <location>
          wear all

See Also: REMOVE, EQUIPMENT, SIZE, WIELD, HOLD

#
WIELD 

When you get tired of whacking monsters with your fists, you might consider
wielding a weapon. Example : wield sword

Some weapons require the player to have a minimum strength in order
to wield. Also, strength determines whether you can wield certains
weapons as your a primary or secondary weapon.

Syntax:   wield <weapon>

See Also: REMOVE, EQUIPMENT, STRENGTH, SWITCH, TWO HANDERS

#
PROMPT PROMPTS 

The prompt command allows you to program your prompt exactly how
you want it.  (Examples to follow.)  Here are the codes:

%h - current hitpoints          %i - Current hp with color
%m - current mana               %n - Current mana with color
%v - current moves              %w - Current moves with color
%k - current ki                 %l - Current ki with color
%g - current gold

%H - Max hitpoints              %x - Experience
%M - Max mana                   %X - Experience to next level
%V - Max moves                  %a - Alignment
%K - Max ki                     %A - Alignment with color
                                %s - Sector type of room you are in

These codes also work, but they will only be displayed when you are
fighting:

%c - Your condition             %C - Your condition with color
%f - Opponent's condition       %F - Opponent's condition with color
%t - Tank's condition           %T - Tank's condition with color

These codes allow you to set the colors used in your prompt:

%0 - Go back to normal text     %5 - Purple
%1 - Red                        %6 - Cyan
%2 - Green                      %7 - Grey
%3 - Yellow                     %8 - Bold
%4 - Blue                       %9 - Flashing
%r - Carriage Return

Examples:
For Spellcasters-
prompt %i/%Hhp %n/%Mmn %w/%Vmv %A %X %T %F>
(This will give you your current and max hitpoints, mana, and moves
in color as well as your alignment, exp needed to level, the person
who is taking the damage's condition (you or your tank), and your
opponents condition)

For Hitters-
prompt %i/%Hhp %w/%Vmv %A %X %T %F>
(This gives you the same info as above but without the mana)

For Bards and Monks (Ki using classes)-
prompt %i/%Hhp %l/%Kki %w/%Vmv %A %X %T %F>
(This gives you the same info as above but with ki)

#
SCORE 

Gives a detailed report on your character's statistics,
condition, and various attributes.

Syntax:   score

Following is a hypothetical score box example.

This Column indicates your
base, or naked, attributes.
This is the value that the
Meta-physician will base his
prices on for increasing any
of the 5 main attributes.
                         v
This Column indicates    v
your attributes after    v
any bonus or penalty     v      This column indicates maximum values for
from equipment you're    v      the portion of your health in question.
wearing, or from         v                                          v
spells cast upon you,    v                                          v
have been applied.       v  This Column indicates current values.   v
                    v    v                                    v     v
(:)=========================(:)=========================================(:)
||  Strength:      13 (12) |/|  Race:   Your Race  HitPts:  123/( 456) |~|
|~|  Dexterity:     13 (13) |o|  Class:  Your Class Mana:    123/( 456) ||
|/|  Constitution:  15 (14) ||  Lvl:    20         Fatigue: 123/( 456) |o|
|o|  Intelligence:  14 (15) |~|  Height:  50        Ki:       12/(  34) |/|
||  Wisdom:        17 (16) |/|  Weight: 100        Alignment: 0        |~|
|~|  Rgn: H:5 M:10 V:11 K:1 |o|  Age:     17 years                      ||
(:)=========================(:)===(:)===================================(:)
      ^
      ^                                      Like above, this
Rgn is short for Regeneration,               is a maximum value.
this indicates how much health                                 v
you will regenerate each pulse.        Like above, this        v
H = Hit points,  M = Mana,             is a current value.     v
V = moVes,       K = Ki                                  v     v
                                                         v     v
(:)=========================(:)===(:)===================================(:)
|/|  Combat Statistics...         ||   Equipment and Valuables         |o|
|o|      This section should      |~|    Items Carried:  5  /(15 )      |/|
||      not need explaining      |/|    Weight Carried: 20 /(115 )     |~|
|~|                               |o|    Experience:     0              ||
|/| FIRE[+19] COLD[+21] NRGY[+23] ||    ExpTillLevel:   7000000        |o|
|o| ACID[+18] MAGK[+25] POIS[+18] |~|    Gold: 0         Platinum: 0    |/|
(:)===============================(:)===================================(:)
         ^         ^         ^
Several offensive attacks fall into one of these       NRGY = energy
catagories.  When you are attacked in this manner,     MAGK = magick
there is a chance you will fare better than your       POIS = poison
opponent would hope.  These numbers affect that        The others should
chance.  Higher numbers are better, lower numbers      be clear enough.
are worse.  Note that it is possible for these
numbers to be negative.  Less than zero is worse
than above zero.

See Also: REPORT, REGENERATION, PULSE

#
REPORT 

Gives a one-line description of your character's stats to
everyone in the room.

Syntax:   report

See Also: SCORE, ANONYMOUS

#
AUCTION 

A communication channel for selling and buy equipment and goods
between characters.

Syntax:   auction <message>

See Also: CHANNEL

#
SHOUT 

A communication channel that will only be displayed to those in your
immediate area.

Syntax:   shout <message>

See Also: GOSSIP, CHANNEL, AUCTION

#
DREAM 

A communication channel that can only be used and seen while asleep.

Syntax:   dream <message>

See Also: GOSSIP, CHANNEL, TRIVIA, SHOUT, AUCTION.

#
GOSSIP 

A communication channel used for most everyday things.

Example:
 > gossip Anyone want to group?  Meet at fountain.

Syntax:   gossip <message>

See Also: AUCTION, INFORM, CHANNEL

#
TRIVIA 

What is Trivia?

1)  Trivia is a channel over which trivia games are conducted.
An immortal asks the questions, and mortals answer over the same
channel.  (Use:  trivia <message text><enter>)

2)  Trivia is a game and means of earning brownie points and other
prizes (such as gameload and gold).  Trivias are run both on a
scheduled basis and also occasionally impromptu.

When are trivias held?

Whenever an immortal, of the appropriate level, schedules one.

What are the rules of Trivia?

1) Be courteous to and considerate of the immortal hosting the
trivia.  He/she has put some time and effort into preparing a trivia,
and also into running it.  Your way of thanking and rewarding an
immortal for the opportunity to compete in trivias for prizes should
be to follow a few simple rules and to treat the host(ess) with
the utmost courtesy.

2) Inappropriate commentary should be kept off of the trivia channel
during an official trivia.  Any complaints about specific questions
should be directed toward the host(ess) at the end of the game,
before the final score tabulation and prize distribution.  The
host(ess) is, however, the final judge of the correct answer of a
question, and his/her authority should be respected.  Additional
commentary directed at other players and/or oneself should be
directed toward another, more appropriate channel.

Failure to comply with these simple rules, as well as any others
specifically stipulated by the hosting immortal will result in
disciplinary action.  Anyone who interferes with the progress of
a trivia or otherwise makes themselves a nuisance during a trivia
will be warned first, booted without warning on the second offense,
and silence for the duration of trivia if he/shes continues to
engage in disruptive behavior.  Repeatedly disruptive behavior may
result in an individual being temporarily or permanently banned
from competing in trivia games.

Questions, comments, complaints, and/or suggestions about trivias
should be directed to Apocalypse, whose email address can be found
in "help email"

Syntax:   trivia <answer>

See Also: AUCTION, INFORM, GOSSIP, CHANNEL, BROWNIE, QUEST.

#
INFORM 

This is a communications channel that you can't actually type on:
it is used for messages concerning pkills.  Type channel info to
toggle it.

See Also: GOSSIP, AUCTION, CHANNEL

#
LFG 

LFG means "Looking For Group".  This flag means you are seeking to
join a group and will let others know. Upon joining or founding a
group, this flag will toggle off automatically. "who lfg" will
display a listing of all visible characters looking for a group.

Syntax:   toggle LFG

See Also: TOGGLE

#
WHISPER 

This command works very much the way that tell does, although other
people in the room will see who you whisper to. Also, the person
you wish to share your secret message with must be in the room with
you.

Syntax:   whisper <player> <message>

#
ASK 

This is another communication command. The target of your question
must be in the same room as you, and other people in the room will
see who you ask your question of.

Syntax:   ask <player> <message>

#
LOCK 

Locking barriers such as doors may only be accomplished if you have
in your inventory the correct key for that door. The door must be
closed first.

Syntax:   lock <barrier> <direction>

See Also: UNLOCK, PICK

#
UNLOCK 

Unlocking barriers such as doors may only be accomplished if you
have in your inventory the correct key for that door. The barrier
will the be unlocked and can be opened.

Syntax:   unlock <barrier> <direction>

See Also: LOCK, PICK

#
EAT DRINK FOOD WATER 

From time to time you may notice that your character is hungry
or thirsty. When affected in this way, you will not regen mana
and hitponts at nearly the same rate as when your character is
well fed and not parched. There are several places in Sorpigal
where sutable sustenance can be purchased or found. In order to
find a source of water, you must obtain a drink container or
locate a fountain.

Syntax:   eat <object>
          drink <container>

See Also: SIP, TASTE

#
CONCENTRATION CONC "SKILL SUCCESS" 

Often, though you try your best, your skill, spell, or ability
just plain old screws up.  When a spell caster loses his or her
concentration, the spell fails and half the mana cost of the
spell is lost. This also applies to skills and abilities with
costs of movement, ki, or hit points.

Your base % chance of success on any ability is 33%. This means if
you have learned a skill beyond the "not learned" stage, you have
a minimum 33% chance of success.  For each skill point (out of 100)
you advance above the first, your chance of success improves accordingly.
Note that there is always a 2-5% chance of failure no matter how well
you have learned an ability.

Some abilities have other stats that can affect their success rates.
This includes wisdom or intelligence for various classes as listed
in the INT and WIS helpfiles.  A specific example other modifiers is
the backstab ability, which is directly correlated to the attacker's
dexterity (DEX) and target's armour class (AC).

See Also: INT, WIS, CAST, META, SKILLS, LEARN, REQUISITES, FIZZLE

#
FREEDOMS FREEDOM "FREEDOM FROM HUNGER AND THIRST" 

Freedoms from hunger and thirst can be purchased at the Meta
Shop for a fairly substantial price.

When purchased, it eliminates the need to eat or drink. Also,
you will never have a full stomach, so you may quaff as many
potions as you like.

See Also: HUNGER, AUTOEAT

#
PLATINUM PLAT PLATS 

Platinum can not be stolen from you, and as such it is the currency used
for just about anything else that can be purchased but not stolen.  Such
things would include special equipment known as godload (or GL for short),
your corpse if you should be so unfortunate as to find it listed for sale
in the morgue, or perhaps various services offered by the Meta-physician.

In order to get platinum coins you must visit the Meta-physician.
(Type list when with him, to see the services he offers.)

See Also: META, GOLD, BANK, MORGUE, PLATINUMSMITH, LIST

#
GOLD "GOLD PIECES" MONEY 

Gold is the standard currency of the Dark Castle Realm.
It is legal tender for all debts, public and private.
The best way to obtain this wonderful resource is to
slay mobs and relieve them of their stash. Gold can
be converted to platinum at the Meta Shop in Sorpigal,
at the rate of 20,000 gold to 1 Platinum. Once gold has
been transfered into platinum IT CAN NOT BE CHANGED BACK.

In order to safely store your gold without having to change
it into platinum, we suggest using the Sorpial Bank.

Note, that if your total gold is more than 2 billion,
you run the risk of having it reset to 0, which it does once
reaching a certain amount over 2 billion. If this happens,
you will NOT be reimbursed for the loss, under any
circumstances.
(to be exact, the actual number is probably 2,147,483,647.
We say "probably" because no one guarentees the accuracy of
this number.  If we are wrong, and you reset sooner than that,
sorry.  There will be no reimb.  You still had plenty of warning.)

See Also: META, PLATINUM, BANK

#
BANK WITHDRAW DEPOSIT BALANCE "GOLD DEPOSITORY" DEPOSITORY DEP WITH BAL 

Everybody has a free bank account at the Sorpigal bank.  There are no
bank fees, nor is any interest accumulated. The bank is simply a safe
place to store your money; unlike the gold coins you carry around, money
in the bank can not be stolen or lost when you die.  In an effort to
expand its monetary services, the Bank of Sorpigal now provides an
account for every clan as well.

You must be at the bank in order to use the following commands:

The following commands allow you to access your bank account.
withdraw <amount> - transfer gold from your bank account to your character
deposit <amount>  - transfer gold from your character to your bank account
balance           - tells you how much gold you have in your bank account

The following commands allow you to access your clans' bank account.
cwithdraw <amount> - transfer gold from your clans' bank account to your
                     character (assuming you have the right to do so)
cdeposit <amount>  - transfer gold from your character to your clans'
                     bank account
cbalance           - tells you how much gold you have in your clans'
                     bank account

See Also: GOLD, PLATINUM

#
KILL HIT MURDER 
Commands used to initiate a fight.  Note that starting a fight with this,
you will be able to get one round of attack in before your opponent can
fight back.  The murder command can only be used on other player
characters.

Syntax:   kill/hit <target>
          murder <player>

See Also: TARGET

#
AMBUSH 

Rangers spend quite some time in the forests silently waiting
for their quarry to come within range, and use the element of
surprise to quickly do damage to their opponent.

Because ambushing requires quickly running up to your opponent
and attacking you are unable to do anything else for three rounds
of combat.

Syntax:   ambush <player>
          ambush <same player> (to stop ambushing)

See Also: RANGER, CLASSES, SKILLS

#
KICK 

The success of a kick depends upon how well you are learned.  The higher
level you reach the harder you kick.  There is one small catch - whenever
you kick (or miss) you will be unable to type any command for two
rounds of 'violence'.

Syntax:   kick <target>
          kick (when in combat)

See Also: SKILLS

#
BASH 

The success of a bash depends upon how well you are learned.  To bash
someone is to attempt to 'knock' that person over. If you succeed you
will inflict minor damage, and cause the victim to fall on their rear.
The victim will be unable to issue any commands for 2 rounds of
violence.  If you miss you lose your balance and fall.  You will not
be able to type any commands for 2 rounds of violence as well whether
you hit or miss the bash.

To successfully bash someone, you must be wielding a weapon.  However,
the actual hit itself is done with your off-hand.  For this reason, it
is much easier to bash someone while using a shield.  Two-handed weapons
also are more effective than using single-handed weapons though not to
the degree of a shield.

Syntax:   bash <target>
          bash (when in combat)

See Also: SKILLS

#
BERSERK 

Berserk allows a Barbarian to go after an enemy with reckless abandon.
while the barbarian will inflict massive amounts of damage on the enemy,
their AC will have 30 points added to it, thereby making them easier to
hit.  In additon, *no* other commands can be typed while in this state of
rage, and this makes it very dangerous.

Syntax:   berserk <target>
          berserk (when in combat)

See Also: SKILLS, AC, RAGE

#
STUN 

Stun allows you to take into account a knowledge of physiology.  In
essence, you hit your opponent right in the stomach, causing them to be
motionless for close to two rounds.  This is of great advantage against
mobs that do lots of damage.  The drawback is that you will be unable to
type any commands for 5 rounds of violence, whether you hit or miss.

Syntax:   stun <target>
          stun (when in combat)

See Also: SKILLS

#
REDIRECT 

Redirect is a skill that allows you to, when fighting two or more
opponents, choose which one to actively kill.  Ie, when fighting a
cityguard and the tarrasque:

>redirect tarrasque

You will now hit the tarrasque instead of the cityguard.  Good luck :)

Syntax:   redirect <target currently in combat with you>

See Also: SKILLS

#
RESCUE 

A rescue is an attempt to make a monster hit you instead of the person
being rescued.  You can only 'turn' one monster for each attempt. This
is highly usable when playing in groups. The rescued person will exit
combat and find themself momentarily confused.

Syntax:   rescue <player_name/mob_name>

See Also: SKILLS

#
STEAL POCKET THEFT 

Use steal to steal items from people. The chance of not getting
caught depends on how well you have practiced steal, and if the person
is asleep.

You gain xp if you succeed in stealing from a mob thats not asleep.

Stealing from a player has special consequences.  See PSTEAL for
more information.

Syntax:   steal <item> <target>

Gold may also be stolen by using the pocket command:

Syntax:   pocket <victim>

See Also: PSTEAL, RULES, SKILLS, DEATH

#
PSTEAL PSTEALING PLAYERSTEAL PLAYERSTEALING PTHIEF PTHIEVING 

If you choose to steal or pocket from a Player, you will be flagged
a PTHIEF and receive a CANTQUIT flag. As long as you have both of these
flags you will find yourself unable to give, donate, sell, or otherwise
transfer ANY of your carried items to another player or mob.

PTHIEF flags will eventually wear off, but not nearly as soon as CANTQUIT
flags. If you die to a mob with a PTHIEF flag, you will lose stats
regardless of level, and you will leave a corpse that anybody can loot.
If you are killed by a player, however, the chance for stat loss is
random, but you still leave a corpse.

NEWBIE flagged items cannot be stolen from players.

NO_TRADE items CAN be stolen from players, but the item will disappear and
neither the thief nor the victim will keep the item once it *poofs* in this
way.

See Also: RULES, DEATH, CANTQUIT, PKILLING, NOTRADE, NEWBIE EQUIPMENT

#
BACKSTAB 

Is a way to sneak up on a person, and attempt to place your dagger in his
back, at exactly the point where it does the most damage. A successful
backstab gives a damage multiplier, depending on level. In order to
use this skill you must be wielding a weapon which pierces or stings.

The chance of successfully backstabbing a person depends on how well you
have practiced backstab at your guild. You can always backstab sleeping
persons.

Syntax:   backstab <target>

See Also: SKILLS, CIRCLE, DUALBACKSTAB

#
DUALBACKSTAB 

This is a highly coveted skill which allows a practiced thief to backstab
his opponent not once, but twice in a single attack. This happens
automatically, whenever the thief backstabs.  Keep in mind that you must
wield TWO backstab weapons for this skill to operate.

Syntax:   backstab <target>

See Also: SKILLS, BACKSTAB, CIRCLE

#
EYEGOUGE "EYE GOUGE" EYE GOUGE 

Due to their sneaky and crafty nature, thieves have learned various
unconventional methods of injuring their opponents.  By pushing their
thumbs deep into their opponents eyes, a thief can temporarily blind
whoever they may be fighting.

Syntax:   eyegouge <target>

See Also: SKILLS, THIEF

#
DISARM 

The chance of a disarm depends upon how well you are learned.  To disarm
someone is to attempt to 'knock' away that person's weapon.  If you
succeed you will cause him to drop his weapon into his inventory.  If you
miss, your opponent will be able to attack one extra round.  A cursed
weapon cannot be disarmed, but on the other hand cannot be unwielded
either.

A character without a weapon will do less damage and will be unable to
parry. A disarmed player may find their weapon in the hands of a thief if
they are not careful.  (Or more likely, if your weapon is in the hands of
a thief, you probably wont find it at all.)

Syntax:   disarm <target>
          disarm (when in combat)

See Also: SKILLS

#
TRIP 

The chance of a trip depends upon how well you are learned.  To trip
someone is to attempt to 'knock' a person down.  If you succeed you will
cause him to fall down onto the ground.

A successful trip will cause you to be unable to type commands for 3
rounds of violence, and cause your victim to be unable to type commands
for 1 round of violence and sit down.  The advantage to trip is that
a foiled attempt results in only one round of lag for the attacker.

Syntax:   trip <target>
          trip <when in combat>

See Also: SKILLS

#
DODGE 

The chance of dodging an attack depends upon how well you are learned.

If you succeed, you would have skillfully dodged your opponent's attack.

See Also: SKILLS

#
PALM 

This skill allows a thief, if successful, to pick up an object in the room
without anyone else noticing.

Syntax:   palm <item>
          palm <item> <container>

See Also: STEAL, SKILLS, RULES

#
STALK 

Stalk allows you to follow someone completely unnoticed. This is done
through a combination of hide and sneak. No message is given to your
victim that you are following them. The success of this depends on how
well you've practiced.

Syntax:   stalk <target>
          stalk <self> (stop stalking anyone)

See Also: HIDE, SNEAK, SKILLS

#
CIRCLE 

Circle allows you to stealthily disengage from your opponent and circle
them to backstab them again. You'll be unable to type any command for 3

rounds of melee after each circle, much like backstab. If you are the
tank, circle will not work.  Circle will not be as damaging as a normal
backstab, although if you can dualbackstab, than you have a chance to
dual circle. Circle can ONLY be done in combat, and cannot be used to
initate combat.

Syntax:   circle (only in combat)

See Also: BACKSTAB, SKILLS, DUALBACKSTAB

#
EAGLECLAW 

This skill, if successful, will inflict minor damage on the victim. If you
kill the victim, you will hold its heart in your hands. One catch - You
can't wield or hold a weapon to use it.


Syntax:   eagleclaw <target>
          eagleclaw (while in combat)

See Also: SKILLS

#
PARRY 

The chance of parrying an attack depends upon how well you are learned.
If you succeed, you would have parried your opponent's attack.  You must
wield a weapon to be able to parry.

Parry is also the name of a player character.
The player named Parry is beyond help, however, thanks for your attempt to
help him by typing "help parry".

See Also: SKILLS

#
"DOUBLE WIELD" "DUAL WIELD" 

You can wield another weapon if you're not holding anything, or wearing

a shield. This will give you an extra attack based on the secondary
weapon you're wielding. Fighter classes are much more proficient at
fighting with two weapons than those who rely on magic as their means
of survival.

See Also: DOUBLE ATTACK, TRIPLE ATTACK, SWITCH

#
CAST MAGIC 

Casting is the means by which mages, clerics, and a few other classes
can use their spells.

Syntax:   cast '<spell name>' [character].

Example:  cast 'burning hands' enfan
This will cast the spell known as Burning Hands at the pc or npc named
enfan.  Note that the name of the spell must be enclosed by the holy
magic symbols which are similar in appearance to an apostrophe ( ' ).

Also note that if the spell is a directed, aggressive spell, and no
target is supplied, it will target the person (mob, pc) you are fighting
automatically.

Syntax:   cast '<spell>' [target]

(If already in combat or spell is area effect, or defaults to self)
Syntax:   cast '<spell>'

See Also: SPELLS, CLASSES, SAVINGTHROWS, LEARN

#
DROP 

If you lose interest in a carried item, you can drop it on the ground.
Some items however may not be dropped, these items are known as cursed
items, in order to get rid of these you must find a helpful cleric
or a shop keeper who might even pay you for these cursed items.

Example:  drop bottle

If you feel like getting rid of all your earthly possessions, you may
use "drop all".

Syntax:   drop <item>
          drop all

See Also: GET, REMOVE CURSE

#
ORDER 

You can order mobiles under your charm to do things:

   order Random say I'm a jerk and I know it.

Or you can order all the mobiles who are charmed by you, like this:

   order followers say We worship you, leader!!

Syntax:   order <follower> <command>

See Also: RANGER

#
LIST 

LIST provides a listing of what a shop has for sale.

Syntax:   list

See Also: BUY, SELL, VALUE, SHOP

#
BUY 

BUY buys things by name.

Syntax:   buy <item>

See Also: SELL, VALUE, LIST, SHOP

#
SELL 

SELL sells the item you have to the shopkeeper for gold.

Syntax:   sell <item>

See Also: BUY, VALUE, LIST, SHOP

#
RENT SAVE QUIT 

Dark Castle doesn't have rent. Just save and quit, in any safe room.
If you are in town, you will come back where you left.  If you are out
of town, you will still come back where you left with everything you had
on your character.

Those of you who plan on leaving Dark Castle for a while need to archive
your characters.

'Rent' regarding player shops should see help 'IWANTAPLAYERSHOP'

See Also: RULES, MULTIPLAYING, ARCHIVE

#
WEATHER 

If you're uncertain whether the sun is shining or the rain is pouring
down.  Weather will not work if you're indoors.

Syntax:   weather

See Also: CONTROL WEATHER, CALL LIGHTNING

#
READ EXAMINE 

When you want to read/examine something.  It displays the extra
description field set on the object.

Syntax:   read <obj>
          examine <obj/mob/player/item>

See Also: BOARD

#
REMOVE 

If you tire of wearing some armor or wielding a weapon.
Example:  remove sword

Or, if you wish to remove all your equipment in a hurry, you can do so.
Example:  remove all

Syntax:   remove <item>
          remote all

See Also: EQUIPMENT

#
"NEWBIE SHOP" SHOP SHOPS SHOPPES 

Shops are places where the adventurer may purchase equipment for his
quests, and where he may sell his treasure if he should manage to
survive the perils with his life and sanity intact. Many shops trade
only in a specific type of merchandise. The following commands may be
used at a shop: buy, sell, list, and value.

Note: To how the commands mentioned above function, please reference
      their associated helpfiles.

While there are shops scattered throughout the realms of Dark Castle,
the city of Sorpigal is home to several retailers.

Sadus' House of Fish and Pastries: Sells various edible goods.
       Directions from Tavern: s, w, n.

The General Store: Sells various items, such as boxes and torches.
       Directions from Tavern: s, w, s.

The House of Arms: Sells various kinds of armor.
       Directions from Tavern: s, e, n.

Ye Leatherworks Shoppe: Sells various leather made garments.
       Directions from Tavern: s, e, s.

Eas-o-matic's Weapon-o-rama: Sells various types of weaponry.
       Directions from Tavern: s, e, e, e, n.

Arnold's House of Authentic Austrian Arrows: Sells archery equipment.
       Directions from Tavern: s, e, e, s.

Magiks R Us: Sells magical items, such as wands, potions, and scrolls.
       Directions from Tavern: s, s, s, s, w, s.

The Jeweller's Shop: Sells various gems and jewels.
       Directions from Tavern: s, s, e.

See Also: BUY, SELL, LIST, VALUE, PLAYERSHOPS

#
PLAYERSHOPS PLAYERSHOP "PLAYER SHOPS" "PLAYER SHOP" 

Player run shops work just like normal shops except that you cannot
'sell' things to them.  They are located in the bazaar in town.  These
shops contain items put up for sale by the player that owns it.

See Also: IWANTAPLAYERSHOP

#
IWANTAPLAYERSHOP 

Shops can be opened by players by purchasing a stall location from an
implementer for a fee in platinum coins.  A rent of platinum is charged
on the first of each month(RL) for the space.  The cost of the rent is
taken directly from the 'till' of the shop so make sure you have at
least 2 million gold in there at all times to cover your rent.  Shops
that are unable to make their rent payment on the first are immediatly
shutdown and all its items destroyed.  No exceptions.

Shop owners have a number of shop commands available to them while they
are in the shop.  These include the normal commands (list, buy) as well
as the special owner commands:
   withdraw - take money from the till and put it in your pocket
   stock    - take an item and put it up for sale
   design   - view/change details about your shop (name, etc)

Note that when you stock an item in the shop, it loses all restrings and
special adjustments that keep it from being a normal copy of that item.

See Also: PLAYERSHOPS

#
MAP SORPIGAL TOWN "NORTHERN SORPIGAL" "SOUTHERN SORPIGAL" 

This is the map of Sorpigal, which is the central town in
Dark Castle.  It does have quite a bit of detail, but it
does not list every single square foot.  Explore within
the confines of the city gates to find places not listed
here.  If you notice any errors email one of the helpfile
editors.  Check help email for addresses.

====================================================================
                            L E G E N D

   N    ~~~~~~~~ = water                A-M-E-S - R-O-O-M  N-A-M-E
 W + E      down = v                    N   in this format       S
   S          up = ^                        indicate a
                                        M   virtual street.      R
Left or right arrows indicate objects   O   Or, rows of rooms    O
that may be entered/exited, by typing:  O   all with the same    O
"enter <name>" or "leave", instead of   R   name as each other   M
using the usual compass directions.
Following arrows     = enter
Going against arrows = leave
--------------------------------------------------------------------

  T-O-P  O-F  T-O-W-N  W-A-L-L ---- T-O-P  O-F  T-O-W-N  W-A-L-L

 L                                                              T

 L                                                  Rogue       O
 A                                                  Master,     P
 W                                                   Skiv
                                                      |         O
 N           Chess                                    |         F
 W           Board - <<<<<<<<-- Cozy---- G-R-U-N-G-Y  A
 O                             Corner                 L         T
 T                             |         Morgue       L         O
                               |           v          E         W
 F                             |           v          Y         N
 O                             |           v
                               |           ^          G         W
 P                             |           ^          R         A
 O                             |           ^          U         L
 T                             |        Chamber       N         L
 v                 Mortal----Albatross-----of--------G          v
 v                 Board      Tavern     Charity    Y           v
 v Paladin  Meta                |                  /            v  Barb
 ^  Guild   Shop   Bakery       |       Armours   /   Weapons   ^  Guild
 ^  |        |       |          |          |     /       |      ^  |
 ^  |        |       |          |          |    /        |      ^  |
 ^  |        |       |          |          |    |        |       ^ |
West--S-a-t-i-v-a S-t-r-e-e-t--Stone--S-a-t-i-v-a  S-t-r-e-e-t --East
Tower        |       |         witch       |        |        |  Tower
    |        |       |          |          |        |        |     |
    |        |       |          I          |        |        |     W
    T    Pet Shop    |          N          |     Fletcher    |     H
    A               General     D       Leather         Warrior    A
    N               Store       I        Shop             Guild   R
    J                           C                                F

     ----Repair Shop    Bank----A------Jeweller        Uncle----|
    A                                                  Juan's   |
    V      Souvineer Shop       W ->>>>>>>-Tent                 W
    E         v                 A                               H
    E         ^                 Y                               A
    N-----Quester's   Cleric---- -----Sophia's                  R
    U     Haven Inn   Guild     I     Garments                  F
    E                           N                  Shanty       |
    |       Mage                D            -------Town--------|
    |       Guild               I            |        |         W
 Skunk        |                 C            |        |         H
Corner- A-R-C-A-N-U-S L-A-N-E -Mid--   A-L-L-E-Y   A-L-L-E-Y  --A
    |         |       |       witch          |        |         R
    |         |       |         A            |        |         F
    |         |       |                      |        L         |
    |         |       |         W            |        E         |
    W         |       |         A            |        V         |
    A         |     Magic       Y         Anti-Pal    E         |
    L--Shops  |     Shop        |          Guild      E     Warehouse
    L         |                 |                     |
              |                 |                     |
~~~~R~~~~~~~Bridge~~~~~~~~South Bridge~~~~~~~~~~~~~~River~~~~~~~~~~~~
    O         |                 |
    A--Gang   |                 |
    D  land   |             --------Fountain
              |             |      |
                            |      |
                            v      v
                        To Southern Sorpigal
----------------------------------------------------

See Also: NEWBIE AREAS, ENTER, LEAVE

#
PRACTISE PRACTICE PRAC PRACS 

Practice is the way you improve your spells and skills.  You must go to
your guildmaster to practice.  With no argument, PRACTICE lists your
current skills.  With an argument, PRACTICE will practice that spell, skill
or song.  You will get practices every time you level.  The higher wisdom
you have, the more practices you will get. The higher intelligence you
have, the more skill you will gain from each practice. Many skills are
shared by more than one class, but some classes are able to practice these
skills up to a higher ability than others. For example, a warrior has the
potential to become much more proficient at the 'shield block' skill than
a thief ever could, even though both classes posses this skill.

Syntax:   practice
          practice <skill|spell|song>

Each skill can be learned to a different level out of 100.
These appear as specific names on your "practice" list.
A summary is below (out of 100):

Horrible:   1-5
Crappy:     6-10
Meager:     11-15
Bad:        16-20
Poor:       21-30
Decent:     31-40
Average:    41-50
Fair:       51-60
Good:       61-70
Very Good:  71-80
Excellent:  81-85
Superb:     86-90
Masterful:  91+

See Also: AUTOIMPROVE, SPECIALIZATION, SKILL QUESTS, META, GUILD,
          INT, WIS, LEARN, SKILLS, REQUISITES

#
EXITS EXIT 

Gives you a list of the obvious exits from your location. Of course, the
less obvious ones won't show up here - you have to THINK in order to
locate those. Immortals will get the numbers of the rooms that the exits
lead to also.

Those of you who suddenly realized that the sun is starting to rise and
you still haven't gone to bed yet, and would like to god forbid, leave
Dark Castle for the night, need to type quit.

Syntax:   exits

See Also: QUIT, SAVE

#
LEAVE 

If you have entered a portal, and you didn't mean to, or you want to get
out for some reason, 'leave' will get you out.  However, this only works
for permananet game portals.  This will not work for portals created by
the 'portal' spell.

Syntax:   leave

See Also: ENTER

#
ENTER 

Command used to enter portals to other places.

Syntax:   enter <item>

See Also: LEAVE

#
TIME 

Gives you the current 'gametime'. Your initial reaction to the output of

this command may be one of surprise, but you'll get used to it. You'll
have to, at any rate, since certain things in the game depend on this
particular notion of time; the opening hours of the shops, for example.

Time also displays the current uptime of the mud, as well as the actual
time where the machine is located that the mud is running on.

Syntax:   time

#
BUG TYPO IDEA 

For making useful suggestions to the implementers.

Examples:
    bug the entire game crashes when I type 'put bag in bag'
    idea make a restaurant in Sorpigal
    typo 'sence' should be spelled 'sense'

If you use the TYPO command, make sure you are standing in the room
that contains the mispelling.  This helps us a lot.

If your idea can't be summed up in a few lines for the IDEA command,
see the IDEAHELP help topic.

See Also: IDEAHELP

#
IDEAHELP HELPING 

So, you think you have an idea that might make DC more enjoyable, or
better overall?  Well, read this before doing anything--to make sure
that your idea has merit.

Most of the ideas we get are actually just complaints.  Think about
what you're saying.  Is it just a criticism that doesn't suggest any
sort of alternative or addition?  This sort of "idea" doesn't help
anyone out, and we ignore them.  In other words, save your breath.

The next batch of ideas we get are pretty unbalancing or are just
changes to existing features to make them more powerful.  Consider
the scope of what your idea may do to the MUD: if we gave fireshield
to more classes or increased the chance to bingo.  Besides being
unoriginal, we've probably heard all these "ideas" before.

Some ideas we get would require a lot of change to the MUD's code,
especially some of the more critical files.  Certain changes even
require us to do a pfile wipe (how's that for extreme?).  Most people
have no coding experience, so it's hard for them to ascertain the
level of work their ideas would require.  If it sounds like it would
be a lot of effort and modification, it probably will be.

Finally, we occasionally get ideas that are original and practical,
and don't take too much skin off our backs to implement.  It's a
win-win situation.

If you think your idea is original, practical, and not very demanding--
email it to a world imp or a code imp, depending on the type of idea
it is.  Think it all out first, and try to find all the loopholes and
snags in the concept.  Then, write it up clearly and concisely so we
can understand what you mean without an interpreter.  Pretend you're
trying to get a job--and you want your points to be seen crystal clear
and taken seriously.

See Also: EMAIL, WIZLIST

#
GET TAKE 

If you find something interesting on the ground, you may use 'get' to pick
it up. Example: "get greatsword". If you are in a hurry, or if you just
feel very greedy, you may type "get all". You can also use 'get' to
extract objects from containers. Example: "get dagger bag",
"get all corpse".

NO TRADE items can not be picked up, or removed from a container in
conjunction with the 'get all' or 'get all.[item keyword]' commands. They
can still be gotten, however, but only individually.

Syntax:   get <item/all> [container]

See Also: DROP, PUT, PALM

#
PUT 

For putting stuff in containers. Example: "Put the dagger in the bag"
or more simply, "Put dagger bag".

Syntax:   put <item/all/all.item> <contaienr>

See Also: GET, INVENTORY

#
BOARD 

Dark Castle has a suggestion board located west of the Albatross Tavern
in Sorpigal.  You are encouraged to leave your suggestions and complaints
there.

>look board

This command lists the messages on the board in the order they were
written. The listing shows the message number, date it was written, title
and author.

>read <number>        To read a particular message, use this command.
>read                 To read the next message after the one you just read.

>write <title>

In order to write a note, you will need to be in the same room as
the board, and you must be at least level 5.

Use "write <title>"  to start writing your message. When you are done
type a tilde (~) on a new line. This will take you out of the message
editor.  In some clients, typing ~~ may help you quit the message editor.

>erase <number>       To erase a message that is no longer relevent,
                      or to erase the message you just wrote when you
                      realize you could write it so much better.
                      Mortals of the realm may only erase their own posts.

#
NEWS THENEWS 

Shows the immortal's work-log.

It's a very good idea to check it out once in a while.
If you have trouble getting the proper response when typing "news".
your client may be interpreting news as North,East,West,South... and
sending the direction commands to the mud.  For your convienence, we
have enabled you to type thenews instead, which wont be interpreted as
a speedwalk, because T and H are not abbreviations for directions.

See Also: MOTD

#
SLEEPING WAKE REST SIT STAND 

For changing your position. If you feel weary, it's probably a good idea
to sit and rest for awhile; or maybe even take a nap. Resting
regenerates hit points, mana and moves at a faster rate than standing.
Sleeping is even better.  Beware - when sleeping, you can be stolen from
quite easily, unless you are in a safe room (ie, Albatross Tavern, Meta
shop, etc).

#
POUR 

If you want to pour some liquid from one container to another. To empty
a container use : pour <container> out.

Syntax:   pour <container> <other container>
          pour <container> out

#
GRAB HOLD 

For getting a good grip on something; a torch, for example.

Syntax:   grab/hold <item/all>

See Also: WEAR, WIELD, REMOVE, EQUIPMENT

#
FOLLOW 

For following someone around.  Example: "follow joe".  When you are
through following, use "follow <your name>" to follow yourself.

Syntax:   follow <player/mob>

See Also: GROUP, STALK

#
FLEE 

If you're in a fight and losing, then FLEE. There is a chance that you
might fail to flee. Beware - most mobs will try to track you down...and
some might take desperate measures to find you.

Syntax:   flee

See Also: RETREAT

#
REIMB REIMBURSEMENT 

Reimbursements are generally not given. That's why we have a Morgue with
an Undertaker. It is located above the Chamber of Charity.  Also know that
we are not in any way responsible for lost eq during transfers, and will
not reimb for it. Reimbs are RARELY given for equipment/stat loss due to a
crash, so please do not ask or pray for a reimb unless you feel that you
have an *exceptional* case to make before the immorts.

If you lost stats or equipment due to a bug, then you may be entitled to a
reimbursement. i.e. your strength has dropped to 0 without equipment, or
your player file has become corrupted.

Gather as much evidence as you can to support your case.  Remember the
conditions and time, capture screen logs, whatever you can.  If you
supply vague information, your plea is likely to be disregarded.

POLICY: You will receive what you can wear at your level and 3 items
        in your inventory.  Items that you cannot otherwise get your-
        self will not be reimbed until you talk to a Greater God, Overseer
        or Implementor.  Items which no longer load in the game will *not*
        be reimbursed (i.e. pre-revised equipment) for the simple reason
        that they no longer exist in that format.

IMPORTANT: Please do not pester immortals for reimbursements.

See Also: IMMORTAL, DEATH, MULTIPLAYING

#
SPAM 

Spamming, as it is commonly known, is the act of repeating the same thing
over and over again, so as to either deliberately or accidentally cause
other players to see it again and again.  This becomes quite annoying,
and as a general rule will merely serve to make people mad at you.
Please note that any god may silence and/or zap you if you continue
to cause such problems.

See Also: IMMORTAL

#
THIRST HUNGER 

Eventually in the game you will get thirsty or hungry, or both.  People in
this game cannot DIE of thirst or hunger, but it will cause you to
regenerate -very- slowly, and eventually you will run out of moves.  You
can buy food at the grocer, or drink at the fountain to restore your
condition.

See Also: MAP, REGEN, AUTOEAT

#
REGEN REGENERATION REGENERATE 

Every pulse (1/5 of a tick) your character will regenerate a certain
amount of their hitpoints, mana, movement, and ki.  On your character's
score, you will find the total amount they will regen per pulse.  Certain
pieces of equipment may modify your regeneration rates in an either
positive or negative way.  Also, being hungry and/or thirsty will
negatively affect your regeneration rates.

Trolls have the innate skill of boosting their hit point regeneration rate
once per day.

Syntax:   innate regeneration

See Also: THIRST, HUNGER, TICK, MANA, HP, MVS,
          CLASSES, RACES, INNATES, SCORE

#
"CONTROL WEATHER" 

This spell will allow you to change the weather to your liking.

 > cast 'control weather' worse
will make the weather worse, and
 > cast 'control weather' better
will make it better.

Syntax:   cast 'control weather' <better/worse>

See Also: SPELLS

#
INFRAVISION INFRA 

While not as effective as a lantern this spell lets the target see
in the dark by converting infrared energy given off by living creatures
and turning it into visible light. An inexperienced adventurer may
first dismiss this spell as inferior to a lantern, forgetting that
light created by the lantern also advertises their location to
monsters of the dark who may not take kindly to visitors.

Syntax:   cast 'infravision' <target>.

See Also: DARKNESS, SPELLS

#
HASTE 

A subject under the affect of Haste gets an additional attack with
its primary wield.  Once cast, the effect doesn't last long...

Syntax:   cast 'haste'

See Also: SPELLS, JIG OF ALACRITY

#
"DISPEL GOOD" 

Much like dispel evil, this spell will do much damage to an opponent who
is good.

Syntax:   cast 'dispel good' <target>

See Also: SPELLS, DISPEL EVIL

#
IMPLEMENTOR IMPLEMENTER IMMORTAL IMMORT 

The Implementors are listed on the top of the wizlist (type wizlist).
This mud is based on MERC Diku code, modified extensively by the
implementers.

If you have a problem with the game, see if an immortal is available
and ask them for help.  In general, start with the lowest level visible
immortal and work your way up.  If no one is available use pray,
but prays such as 'Is so-and-so on' are frowned upon.

If an implementor or an immortal asks you to do something, then do it.
If they ask you how something happened, then tell them.  As a player in
our mud, you are a guest at the party we are throwing.  If you hassle us,
we'll kick you out.

On the other side ... if an immortal interferes with game balance, or uses
immortal power to harass players, we (the implementors) will demote as
needed.  An immortal is not a superman mortal.  They are there to help
run the game, not for their own personal enjoyment.

Asking immortals for specific information about equipment, areas,
and other players is illegal.  Examples include but are not limited
to asking for a player's ip address, asking for the stats on a darked
item, or asking for the location of a hidden door.

On one hand, the immortal staff is here to answer any questions you
have about the game, but there is a line to be drawn between asking
when the clan chaos season starts and asking someone's exact stats.

The implementors, and immortals, may also have mortal characters.  Feel
free to treat these as you would any other players.

See Also: WIZLIST, PRAY, IMPERSONATE, PASSWORD

#
GUILD GUILDS 

The Guildhouse is the place where mortals may go to escape the troubles
and perils of a cruel world.  Each guild is heavily guarded, so that
only members may enter the building.  Guilds are also the places where
people come to learn and practice the skills of their trade.

Be warned: Not every room in your guild is safe or no_magic.

The directions to guilds from the tavern are as follows:
Antipaladin: 4s, e, s
Barbarian:   s, 4e, n
Bard:        9s, w, s, open gate, 2w, s, w
Cleric:      3s, w
Druid:       9s, w, 4s
Mage:        4s, 2w, n
Monk:        s, 6w, 2n
Paladin:     s, 3w, n
Ranger:      s, 6w, 2s
Thief:       n, 3e, n
Warrior:     s, 3e, s

See Also: PRACTICE, GAIN, SKILLS, LEARN

#
INFO 

Gives you some useful hints and information about the game.
Info also provides Clan Chaos (CC) scores as CC seasons progress.

#
WHERE 

Tells you the location of every visible player in your zone.
This is very useful for finding out if someone is coming to kill you.

Syntax:   where

See Also: SCAN, LOOK, AREAS

#
GAIN GAINING LEVEL LEVELING 

Gain is the command you use to move up a level once you possess enough
exps points to level.  Gaining must be done at a guild, in the presence
of a guildmaster.

Syntax:   gain

See Also: LEVELS, XP, PRACTICE

#
LEVELS 

Lists the levels of your class, and the amount of experience necessary to
reach each. You can view your current level, in addition to the host of
other information about you, using the score command.

Syntax:   levels

See Also: SCORE, EXPERIENCE, CLASSES, WHO, COUNT

#
BRIEF VERBOSE 

When in brief mode, you don't see the descriptions of the room you are in,
only the name of the room and the people and objects in there.  Unless you
are very familiar with the area in which you travel, however, it is not
advisable to use this command.  Frequently, you will find small, but vital
hints in the descriptions of the rooms: An extra peek at your surroundings
could mean the difference between life and death!

Syntax:   toggle brief

See Also: TOGGLE

#
!

Repeat the last command typed at the keyboard.

Syntax:   !

#
CONSIDER 

This command will provide a comparison between the monster and you.
The command gives information about the monsters armor and the damage it
inflicts. It also gives a comparison of its hit points and level to your
hit points and level respectively. The information consider provides are
a rough estimate, which is by no means exact.

Example:
  > consider fido

Syntax:   consider <monster/player>

Please note that for this skill to work, you must have practiced it at the
Skill Master, which is up to you to find.

See Also: AC, HIT POINTS, LEVEL

#
EXPERIENCE EXP XP 

Whenever you kill a mob, you will receive experience points.  The harder
the mob, generally the more exps points you get.  When you receive enough
exps points, you have the ability to gain a level by visiting your guild.
Thieves also earn XP for stealing objects and coins.  You will lose XP by
dying by a mob.  Note that there is a max amount of exps that you can get
at one time called an XP cap.  This is determined by your level,
multiplied by 8000.

For example, if you are level 10, you may only get 80000 exps with
one kill, even if the mob is worth 100000. When your total experience is
slightly over 2 billion, it will reset to zero. All experience lost in
this way is gone forever and will not be reimbursed for any reason, so
it is wise to convert XP into gold before you reach 2 billion total.

See Also: GROUP, DEATH, LEVELS, GAIN

#
GROUP GROUPS 

If you are a group member, then you will share experience points for
killing monsters.  Experience points will only be shared among group
members that are in the same location, at the time of the killing blow.
Sharing is regardless of whether the group members have been participating
in the fight.  Also, you will not receive XP while grouped with a person
20 or more levels above you. In addition, XP is divided according to
level, ie, a higher level gets a larger percentage of the experience than
a lower level in the same group.

Group with no argument shows a list of people with whom you are grouped,
and their current status.  Group <player> will add that player to the
group if you are the leader of a group.  Using group <player> again, on
the same player will remove that player from the group.

Syntax:   group <player> (add player to group)
          group (lists group member info)

To start a group, you must first 'found' one.

Syntax:   found <group name>

See Also: XP EXPERIENCE, DISBAND, PROMOTE, FOUND, SOLO

#
SOLO SOLOING 

Soloing refers to killing monsters or players while ungrouped.

See Also: GROUP

#
QUAFF POTION POTIONS 

Quaff is used to "drink" a (magical) potion.

Syntax:   quaff <Potion>

See Also: USE, SPELLS

#
RECITE SCROLL SCROLLS 

Is used to "read" a magical scroll. Target can be an object, character or
nothing (which would default to yourself). There is a possibility of
failing to properly recite a scroll, which will happen more to players
with lower intelligence.

Syntax:   recite <Scroll> [Target]

See Also: USE, SPELLS

#
USE WAND STAFF STAFFS WANDS STAVES 

Using a staff will automatically target everybody (or everything) in a
room, except yourself in some situations. Therefore staves are naturally
very powerful, and yet may be very dangerous to use around other players.

Using wands require that you point it at a target (even if you are
already in mid-battle), which can be either a character or an object.

Both stave's and wand's must be HELD in the hand prior to use! (Use the
grab or hold commands).  You must still supply the name of the staff or
wand to avoid confusion when actually using it.

Many objects behave like wands or staves without looking like them.
For instance, check out the vandal's spray can!

Syntax:   use <Staff>
          use <Wand> <Target>

See Also: EQUIPMENT, SETUP

#
ARMOR 

For the "Armor" stat referred to on the score screen see: help AC

The Armor spell will improve your AC, making you harder
to hit.  This spell will be renewed each time it is cast, such that
once the magic is bestowed upon the caster the duration will be
restored to its highest possible amount.  It is also one of the spells
removable with DISPEL MAGIC.

Syntax:   cast 'armor' <victim>

See Also: AC, DISPEL MAGIC

#
TELEPORT 

Teleport (with error) will instantly transfer you to another location
in the world. This location is random, and thus there will always be
a risk of landing in a fatal location.

Syntax:   cast 'teleport' [self]

#
BLESS 

Bless on a victim will improve the victims saving throw versus spells,
and furthermore improve the target's hit roll.  This spell will be
renewed each time it is cast, such that once the magic is bestowed upon
the caster the duration will be restored to its highest possible amount.

Syntax:   cast 'bless' <victim>

#
BLINDNESS BLIND 

Blindness will blind a victim failing its saving throw and cause them a
penalty to both hit-roll and AC. They will also be unable to see almost
anything.  A successful check in the "blindfighting" skill will reduce
the AC and hit-roll penalty by half, though the player will still be
unable to see.

Syntax:   cast 'blindness' <victim>

See Also: AC, BLINDFIGHTING

#
"FULL HEAL" 

This is the most powerful healing spell in the game.  It restores hps
based on the level of the caster, more hps for a higher level caster.
In addition, clerics of good alignment will do a greater amount of
healing than normal, and clerics of evil alignment will do less.

Syntax:   cast 'full heal' <victim>

See Also: SPELLS

#
"POWER HARM" 

By calling down the wrath of god on the victim, this spell
inflicts much damage.

Syntax:   cast 'power harm' <victim>

See Also: SPELLS, HARM

#
"CREATE FOOD" 

This spell instantly creates an edible magic mushroom. The mushroom
will fill for the next (5+level) hours, up to a maximum of 24 hours.

Syntax:   cast 'create food'

See Also: CREATE WATER, SPELLS

#
"METEOR SWARM" METEOR 

This spell causes a swarm of flaming meteors to fall from the heavens, and
strike the casters intended victim.

Syntax:   cast 'meteor swarm' <victim>

See Also: SPELLS

#
"WIZARD'S EYE" "WIZARD EYE" WIZARD EYE WIZEYE

Projects your mind forth to where the target is and forms an image of what
is happening there.

Syntax:   cast 'wizard eye' <target>

See Also: SPELLS

#
"SOLAR GATE" SOLAR 

This is the most powerful of all spells.  It opens a gate directly to the
sun, causing an incredible blast of heat and light to flow into the world
as we know it.  This does large amounts of damage to anyone in the
current room as well as adjacent rooms.  This will not harm the caster or
the group.  This spell also has a chance to blind the hapless victims.

Syntax:   cast 'solar gate'

See Also: SPELLS

#
"HEROES FEAST" HEROES 

This spell will provide full food and drink to everyone in your group.

Syntax:   cast 'heroes feast'

See Also: SPELLS, CREATE FOOD, CREATE WATER

#
"HEAL SPRAY" 

This powerful clerical spell will cast heal on everybody in the party.

Syntax:   cast 'heal spray'

See Also: SPELLS, HEAL, POWER HEAL, FULL HEAL

#
"GROUP SANCTUARY" 

This spell tends to be very beneficial for large groups, where
a cleric can sanct the entire group for the same cost as sancting
three people normally.

Syntax:   cast 'group sanctuary'

See Also: SPELLS, SANCTUARY

#
"GROUP RECALL" GREC 

This handy spell will recall the entire group back where their homes are
set, thus saving gold.  However, unlike recall, it cannot be used in
combat.  "Grec" is slang for the longer form.

Note: There is also a small chance that some members of the group could
      be left behind. This is related to how well the caster has learned
      the spell.

Syntax:   cast 'group recall'

See Also: SPELLS, WORD OF RECALL

#
"GROUP FLY" 

This is another handy group spell that will fly the entire group,
useful for long walks.

Syntax:   cast 'group fly'

See Also: SPELLS, FLY, FLIGHT OF THE BUMBLEBEE

#
"ACID BLAST" 

The most powerful offensive spell in an Anti-Paladin's arsenal. This will
summon a stream of highly caustic acid to scald the victim in horrendous
ways.

Syntax:   cast 'acid blast' <target>

See Also: SPELLS

#
"LIFE LEECH" 

This spell leeches the life force out of all the mobiles in the room. The
lost hit point will be added to your hit points. Of course, a side effect
is that all the mobs in the room will now call for your head and attack
you.

Syntax:   cast 'life leech'

See Also: VAMPIRIC TOUCH, SOUL DRAIN, ENERGY DRAIN, SPELLS

#
"VAMPIRIC TOUCH" 

Anti-Paladins lack the ability to heal themselves normally like their
cousins the Paladins, so when the strain of battle weakens them they
must resort to this dark act. Harnessing their arcane energies an Anti
will steal the very life force from his victims body, and grow stronger
themselves in the act.

Syntax:   cast 'vampiric touch' <victim>

See Also: LIFE LEECH, SPELLS, ENERGY DRAIN, SOUL DRAIN

#
"TRUE SIGHT" 

This spell will grant you truer sight. You'll be able to see hidden
players or mobs.  It does not, however, grant the ability to see in
the dark, or see invisible mobs, players, or objects. True sight will
be renewed each time it is cast, such that once the magic is bestowed
upon the caster the duration will be restored to its highest possible
amount.

Syntax:   cast 'true sight'

See Also: SPELLS, DETECT INVISIBILITY, INFRAVISION, HIDE, INVISIBILITY

#
FIRESTORM 

This spell calls fire down from the heavens, raining everything in the
room with balls of searing heat.  This is an area effect spell, so be
careful.

Syntax:   cast 'firestorm'

See Also: FIREBALL, SPELLS

#
PARALYZE 

A victim that fails to make it's save will be paralyzed for the duration
of the spell. They will not be able to do anything, least of all fight.
A paralyzed victim will also be more susceptible to damage.  Players
under level 10 will reflect the spell back on the caster, who WILL be
paralyzed. Victims more than 20 levels below the caster are unaffected
and the caster has a chance to be paralyzed.

It is more difficult to paralyze a person who is under the effects of
a sleep spell.  It is impossible to disarm a person who is paralyzed as
their fingers are magically frozen in place.

Syntax:   cast 'paralyze' <victim>

See Also: SPELLS

#
HELLSTREAM 

This is the mage's most powerful direct spell, calling upon hellfire, and
directing it at the unfortunate victim who stands in its way.

Syntax:   cast 'hellstream' <victim>

See Also: FIREBALL, FIRESTORM, SPELLS

#
"CREATE WATER" 

Expect disastrous results if cast upon a drink container which contains
another liquid than water. Empty or water containers will be filled
depending on the level of the caster.

Syntax:   cast 'create water' <drink container>

Double amount of water will be created if it is raining (or worse).

#
"CURE BLIND" 

This spell will cure a person blinded by the "blindness" spell, it
can not remove blindness caused by for example cursed items.

Syntax:   cast 'cure blind' <victim>

#
"CURE CRITIC" "CURE CRITICAL" 

This spell cures more than Cure Serious.  The amount of cure depends
on the level of the caster.

Syntax:   cast 'cure critic' <victim>

#
"CURE LIGHT" 

This spell cures minor wounds but as the caster's levels increase,
he/she may cure more.

Syntax:   cast 'cure light' <victim>

#
CURSE 

Curse cast on a person that fails their saving throw will make them
unable to recall whether by spell, potion, wand, scroll, or command.
Curse will also lower all of the victim's saving throws. Casting curse
on an object will make it to where you cannot drop that object or cannot
remove it once worn.

Syntax:   cast 'curse' (victim | object)

Note:     This spell will not work on player characters who are level
          10 and under.

See Also: NODROP, SPELLS

#
"DETECT EVIL" 

Detect evil will enable you to see the red aura surrounding evil
persons and items.  This spell will be renewed each time it is cast,
such that once the magic is bestowed upon the caster the duration
will be restored to its highest possible amount.

Syntax:   cast 'detect evil'

See Also: DETECT GOOD

#
"DETECT GOOD" 

Detect good will enable you to see the halo surrounding good
persons and monsters.  This spell will be renewed each time
it is cast, such that once the magic is bestowed upon the
caster the duration will be restored to its highest possible
amount.

Syntax:   cast 'detect good'

See Also: DETECT EVIL

#
"DETECT INVISIBILITY" 

This spell enables you to see invisible items and players.
Detect invisibility will be renewed each time it is cast, such that
once the magic is bestowed upon the caster the duration will
be restored to its highest possible amount.

Syntax:   cast 'detect invisibility' [self]

See Also: INVISIBILITY

#
"DETECT MAGIC" 

This spell will let you see the magical aura surrounding magical
objects.
Detect magic will also make visible items of pure magical form,
such as the antipaladin's beacon.

Syntax:   cast 'detect magic'

#
"DETECT POISON" 

Cast on a person, food or drink to find out whether or not the person,
food or drink is poisoned.

Syntax:   cast 'detect poison' (victim | food | drink)

#
"ENCHANT WEAPON" 

This spell is currently being redesigned and will be explained in detail
when it is completed.

#
HEAL 

Heal is more powerful then cure critical, and depends on level of caster
for the amount healed.  It will also remove blindness on a blind person.

Syntax:   cast 'heal' <victim>

See Also: "CURE BLIND"

#
INVISIBILITY 

Self Explanatory.
Attacking while invisible will immediately break the spell.
This spell will be renewed each time it is cast, such that
once the magic is bestowed upon the caster the duration will
be restored to its highest possible amount.

Syntax:   cast 'invisibility' <victim | object>

See Also: DETECT INVISIBILITY

#
"LOCATE OBJECT" 

If possible you will know exactly where an object is, or the
name of the person holding it. If more than one object by the
same name exists, you will get a listing of several objects.

Syntax:   cast 'locate object' <object>

See Also: NOLOCATE

#
POISON 

Casting poison on food or drink (containers) will poison it.
Eating poisoned food/drinks will poison the person eating or drinking.

A poisoned person regenerates very slowly and takes damage each pulse.
The damage a poison victim receives accerates when they are in combat
due to the increased blood flow combat movements require.  However,
combat will also shorted the duration of a poison by burning it off
faster.

Syntax:   cast 'poison' <victim | food | drink>

See Also: DETECT POISON, REMOVE POISON, CURSE, BLIND,
          DEBILITY, ATTRITION, WEAKEN

#
"PROTECTION FROM EVIL" PFE 

PFE will stop monsters from attacking you that normally prefer to attack
people with specific alignments. Monsters who don't care what alignment
you are, or who are pissed at you because you have already done battle
with them and not finished the job, will not be stopped by PFE.

In order for your PFE to matter, you will need to be equal to or higher
than the monster's level.

Anti-paladins, having evil souls themselves, have the innate ability of
protection from evil.

When your PFE comes from casting it, you must show your devotion to your
god by refraining from becoming evil.  Otherwise, your god will withold
protection from you.

PFE from other sources does not rely upon devotion to a god, so being
evil won't matter.

Syntax:   cast 'protection from evil' [target]
          [brackets] imply optional, if you do not
          specify a target, you will cast on yourself.

See Also: PFG, SPELLS

#
"PROTECTION FROM GOOD" PFG 

PFG is the opposite of PFE.  (Please check help on PFE)
Paladins have it all the time by virtue of being paladins.

When your PFG comes from casting it, you must show your devotion to your
*evil* god by refraining from becoming good.  Otherwise, your *evil* god
will withold protection from you.

In order for your PFG to matter, you will need to be equal to or higher
than the monster's level.

PFG from other sources does not rely upon devotion to a god, so being
good won't matter.

Syntax:   cast 'protection from good' [target]
          [brackets] imply optional, if you do not
          specify a target, you will cast on yourself.

See Also: PFE, SPELLS

#
"REMOVE CURSE" 

Will remove a curse on carried objects or the first item which the
person who it is cast on is holding/wearing.

Syntax:   cast 'remove curse' <person | object>

See Also: CURSE

#
"REMOVE POISON" 

Will remove poison from the affected person or edible.

Syntax:   cast 'remove poison' <victim | food | drink>

See Also: POISON

#
SANCTUARY 

When protected by sanctuary all attacks against you will have a reduced
amount of damage.  Paladins wishing to cast sanctuary must be within
the favor of their god and have a significant amount of mana at hand.

Syntax:   cast 'sanctuary' <target>

#
STRENGTH STR 

Strength (STR) is a rating of your character's power and brute force.
The stronger your character is, the more likely they are
to be successful at skills or spells with primary or secondary
requisites that call for STR.

A higher STR often allows for a bonus in many areas, whereas a lower STR
will often incur a penalty. All attributes can be increased at the meta
shop located west of the Albatross Tavern off of Sativa Street.

The following things are modified by your strength:
 - Bonus/Penalty to damage
 - Maximum weight of primary and/or secondary wields
 - Cold Resistance
 - Inventory weight maximums

The strength SPELL increases the targets physical strength for a
period of time allowing the person to carry or wield more and hit harder.

Syntax:   cast 'strength' <target>

See Also: ATTRIBUTES, INT, WIS, DEX, CON, META, DAMAGE

#
VENTRILOQUATE 

For all people in the same room as the caster that fail a saving
throw, the spell will make the object or victim appear to say the
text written. People saving will only notice that someone tried
to make it sound that way, not who.

This is far and away the MOST powerful spell on Dark Castle. ;)

Syntax:   cast 'ventriloquate' <victim | object> <text>

See Also: MORON

#
MORON CHODE NIJLO 

If you're reading this helpfile, you probably fall into one of
those three categories.

See Also: BAD SANTA, BATMAN, LACTAID, BANANAS

#
"BAD SANTA" SANTA JFIZZLE FIZZLE 

Bad Santa is a very bad movie with little or no discernable plot that
was released a few years back.

Bad Santa is also reportedly a cheap porn starring J-Fizzle with many of
the same attributes as its namesake. (bia bia)

Fizzle is also another word for concentration loss.

See Also: CONCENTRATION, CAST, BATMAN

#
CHAIN SPANKY SHELDON 

Chain is a mobile (computer generated character) who's primary purpose

is to spout off amusing, anecdotal, or down right idiotic comments over
the gossip channel.  It is also the name of one of the very first
Implementors on Dark Castle.  Many of his comments are associated with
the rich and intricate history of Dark Castle...like Apocalypse puking
his guts out for example!

Spanky, in addition to being one of the most amusing players ever, has
been immortalized as a mobile who's purpose is to offer advice to new
players over the "newbie" channel.

Sheldon, the Brave and Intrepid Adventurer, is a mob who appears around
Dark Castle in several locations (he's a travelling man!) and can offer
guidance or help to players in specific instances.

#
"WORD OF RECALL" 

The caster will be transferred back to his or her home.

Syntax:   cast 'word of recall'

See Also: HOME, RECALL

#
"PORTAL" 

Will create a magical portal between you and the victim.  Once the portal
is cast, one can enter the portal by typing 'enter portal' and they will
be moved to the location of the other end, where the victim is.  Note
that with the mage variation of portal, only the caster, the victim, and
their charmies can use the portal. Cleric's version is open to whoever has
the courage to enter it.

Be warned that entering a portal, even one of your own making, can be
unexpectedly fatal. It is therefore prudent to use other magical implements
to ensure the safety of your portal's destination.

Syntax:   cast 'portal' <victim>

#
"CHARM PERSON" 

The Charm Person spell has been removed from the game.
Below is its old information for historical and interest purposes:
(as well as to taunt Random)

It is not possible to charm anyone that is already charmed or any
person of higher level than yourself. The victim will get a saving
throw versus "paralyzation".

A charmed mob will follow you, and not be able to attack you; you
can order charmed person using the order command.

Charmed mobs will not be able to wield weapons, and will drop any that
they are currently wielding as soon as they are charmed.

Be warned that if you find a charmable mob who is immune to slash,
pierce, etc. and do not report it or (god forbid) use it to your
advantage, there will be punishment not less than (but also not limited
to) a freeze for one week.  Repeated violations will bring harsher
punishments.

Syntax:   cast 'charm person' <victim>
Affect:   Causes charmable mobs to follow/obey caster.

See Also: FOLLOW, ORDER

#
"MAGIC MISSILE" 

This is the most basic offensive magic user spell. Casting it hurls
a number of magic arrows at an enemy depending upon how well the caster
has the spell practiced.

Syntax:   cast 'magic missile' <victim>

See Also: "BURNING HANDS", FIREBALL, "LIGHTNING BOLT", "COLOUR SPRAY"

#
"RESIST ENERGY" 

This spell will make the caster resistant to all energy based
effects.

Syntax:   cast 'resist cold'

See Also: SPELLS, RESIST FIRE, RESIST COLD, RESIST ACID

#
"RESIST ACID" 

This spell will make the caster resistant to all acid based
effects.

Syntax:   cast 'resist cold'

See Also: SPELLS, RESIST FIRE, RESIST COLD, RESIST ENERGY

#
"RESIST FIRE" 

This spell will make the caster resistant to fire, which is quite
useful in opponents prone to using fire.

Syntax:   cast 'resist fire'

See Also: SPELLS, RESIST COLD, RESIST ENERGY, RESIST ACID

#
"RESIST COLD" 

This spell will make the caster resistant to all cold based
effects.

Syntax:   cast 'resist cold'

See Also: SPELLS, RESIST FIRE, RESIST ENERGY, RESIST ACID

#
"BLUE BIRD" 

"Blue bird" is a lesser druid spell.  Upon casting, the druid summons
one, or multiple, blue birds to aid her in battle.

Syntax:   cast 'blue bird' <target>

See Also: "MAGIC MISSILE", "BEE STING"

#
ATTRITION 

By casting attrition, the caster causes their opponent to suffer
several vicious affects.  The victim will be easier to hit and less
successful in striking their opponent in combat.

Syntax:   cast 'attrition' <target>

See Also: DEBILITY, BLIND, WEAKEN, POISON, CURSE

#
"SUN RAY" 

As a guardian of nature, the druid has the ability to summon a beam
of light to inflict damage on those who would do her harm.  This spell
cannot be cast while it is raining, and must be used outdoors.

Syntax:   cast 'sun ray' opponent

See Also: "CALL LIGHTNING"

#
"WATER BREATHING" 

This spell enables the recipient to move freely in underwater environments.
Without a set of gills, areas beneath water are not accessible. Woe be to
the player whose gills fade away whilst they are underwater.

Syntax:   cast 'water breathing' <target>

#
"STONE SHIELD" STONESHIELD 

Druids, through their relationship with the natural world, have the ability
to call upon the elements to form a barrier of stone to protect them, or
others, from harm.  The stoneshield reduces the damage taken, in a way
similar to sanctuary.  This barrier can only incur so much damage however,
and will shatter after that threshold has been breached.

Syntax:   cast 'stoneshield' <target>

See Also: "GREATER STONESHIELD"

#
"STONE SKIN" STONE STONESKIN 

Turns your skin to stone, thus making you harder to hit, and more
resistant to piercing weapons and backstabs.

Syntax:   cast 'stoneskin'

See Also: ARMOR, SPELLS, SHIELD

#
"SENSE LIFE" 

This spell will enable you to sense hidden life forms in a room.
Invisible persons are also considered hidden if unable to be detected
with detect invisibility.  This spell will be renewed each time it is
cast, such that once the magic is bestowed upon the caster the duration
will be restored to its highest possible amount.

Syntax:   cast 'sense life'

See Also: HIDE, INFRAVISION, "DETECT INVIS"

#
EYES OWL "EYES OF THE OWL" 

Living in the forest and with nature as long as a ranger or druid does
allows them to learn the acute perception of a night predator.
The duration of such lore seems to be dependant on the experience level
of the invoker. Though one should note this spell will be renewed each
time it is cast, such that once the magic is bestowed upon the caster
the duration will be restored to its highest possible amount.

Syntax:   cast 'eyes of the owl'

See Also: INFRAVISION, SENSE LIFE

#
DROWN 

When this spell is used, a surge of water pours over the hapless victim,
filling their lungs with water.  Sometimes the sheer weight of it
crushes them to death.

Syntax:   cast 'drown' <target>

See Also: "COLOUR SPRAY"

#
"LIGHTED PATH" LIGHTED PATH 

By attuning herself to the powers of the earth, the druid is able to see
the last few people who have entered and left a given room.

Syntax:   cast 'lighted path'

#
"RAPID MEND" RAPID MEND 

The caster of this spell is able to channel the powers of nature in order
to increase the regeneration rate of others.

Syntax:   cast 'rapid mend' <target>

#
"LIGHTNING SHIELD" 

Much like the mage's spell of fireshield, this spell will cause the
attacker to take damage from his own attacks.  However, by nature this
spell is not as draining as fireshield and as a result, not as powerful.

Syntax:   cast 'lightning shield' <target>

#
"ACID SHIELD" 

An Anti-Paladin of the utmost evil can call forth a protective aura of
green acid around his or her body. Anyone attacking someone with this
shield will feel the burn of their trespass.

Syntax:   cast 'acid shield'

See Also: SPELLS, ANTIPALADIN, VAMPIRIC AURA

#
FIRESHIELD "FIRE SHIELD" 

The caster will be surrounded by a magical shield of fire. This will
inflict damage on anyone who attacks you every time they manage to
hit you.

Syntax:   cast 'fireshield'

See Also: SPELLS

#
"POWER HEAL" 

More powerful than heal, this spell revives the targets life, depending on
level of the caster.

Syntax:   cast 'power heal' <victim>

See Also: SPELLS

#
CAMOUFLAGE CAMO 

Characters affected by camouflage may be extremely difficult to spot
from a distance.  This spell only works to its fullest potential outdoors.
This is also the most mis-spelled word on Dark Castle.

Syntax:   cast 'camoflauge'

See Also: SCAN, HIDE

#
"BARKSKIN" 

Having studied in the forests for lore and the ways of survival,
generations of rangers and druids have developed a means of
using bark infusions to harden their skin to the denseness to
that of tree bark.

Syntax:   cast 'barkskin'

See Also: "STONESKIN"

#
"GREATER STONESHIELD" GREATER 

A more powerful version of stoneshield, this spell can take more
damage and has a longer duration.

Syntax:   cast 'greater stoneshield'

See Also: "STONESHIELD"

#
"CHILL TOUCH" 

This spell is more powerful than the magic missile spell.
A victim failing its saving throw will feel a chilling pain,
and may find their strength reduced as well.

Syntax:   cast 'chill touch' <victim>

See Also: "MAGIC MISSILE", FIREBALL, "LIGHTNING BOLT"

#
"BURNING HANDS" 

This spell causes your hands to leave scalding burns on
an enemy by merely touching them.

Syntax:   cast 'burning hands' <victim>

See Also: "MAGIC MISSILE, FIREBALL, "CHILL TOUCH"

#
"SHOCKING GRASP" 

This spell is slightly more powerful than the burning hands spell.
With it, you can cause a jolt of electricity to ravage the body of
an enemy.

Syntax:   cast 'shocking grasp' <victim>

See Also: "BURNING HANDS", FIREBALL, "LIGHTNING BOLT"

#
"OAKEN FORTITUDE" OAKEN FORTITUDE 

Using their abilities to call upon the natural powers of nature, druids
can use this spell to heighten their constitution.

Syntax:   cast 'oaken fortitude'

See Also: SPELLS, DRUID

#
"LIGHTNING BOLT" 

This spell lets you conjure a pure bolt of lightning to direct at an enemy.

Syntax:   cast 'lightning bolt' <victim>

See Also: FIREBALL, "COLOUR SPRAY"

#
"COLOUR SPRAY" "COLOR SPRAY" 

This spell allows the caster to call upon the power of a rainbow and throw

a magical burst of painful colors on an opponent.

Syntax:   cast 'colour spray' <victim>

See Also: "LIGHTNING BOLT", FIREBALL, "MAGIC MISSILE"

#
IDENTIFY 

This spell will reveal to the caster many unapparent properties of the
item or person on which it has been cast. Some items have been imbued
with magical properties which prevent their being identified.

Syntax:   cast 'identify' <item or person>

See Also: NOTE OF KNOWLEDGE, ITEM FLAGS, EQUIPMENT FLAGS

#
NOBITS 

When you cast or sing your informative spell or song, and you see this:
Item is: NoBits  NoBits                      or this,
Item is: NoBits  <anything else>

It means that no player characters or charmies can wear it.  The purpose
for it to exist is just so that the monster it came from was able to have
it and use it.

See Also: NOTE OF KNOWLEDGE, IDENTIFY

#
FIREBALL 

This spell will conjure a ball of pure heat to toss at any who stand
in your way.

Syntax:   cast 'fireball' <victim>

See Also: "COLOUR SPRAY", "MAGIC MISSILE", "LIGHTNING BOLT"

#
EARTHQUAKE 

This spell will damage everybody except the caster and his/her
group in that room by shaking the earth with a mighty quake.

Syntax:   cast 'earthquake'

See Also: FREEFLOAT, FIRESTORM, HITALL

#
"DISPEL EVIL" 

An offensive spell that only affects evil opponents.

If the caster is evil, the spell will inflict damage on the caster.

Syntax:   cast 'dispel evil' <victim>

See Also: DISPEL GOOD

#
DEBILITY 

The debility spell severely disables the target, causing significant
reductions to their hit-point, mana, movement, and ki regeneration rates.

Syntax:   cast 'debility' <victim>

See Also: ATTRITION, WEAKEN, POISON, CURSE, BLIND

#
"CALL FAMILIAR" 

It is well known that the more powerful wizards keep magical pets, known
as familiars. These familiars take on many roles of servitude to their
master, but the most prized familiar is the kind which can aid one in
combat. Both druids and mages have the ability to summon a familiar.
The necessary components for casting this spell differ depending on
the type of familiar summoned.  A familiar may or may not comply with
an order you give it, depending on what the order is and if the familiar
feels like being compliant.  However, nonetheless, they are exceedingly
loyal to their masters, quick to join them at a moment's notice.

There are rumors spreading throughout the more exclusive magic circles
that the gods are breeding new types of familiars with the ability to
increase in power much in the same way as their human masters.

Syntax:   cast 'call familiar' <type of familiar>

You can also dismiss your familiar if need be.

Syntax:   cast 'dismiss familiar'

See Also: SPELLS, DISMISS FAMILIAR

#
DISMISS "DISMISS FAMILIAR" "DISMISS CORPSE" 

Please specify "DISMISS FAMILIAR" or "DISMISS CORPSE" when using this
command.

Syntax:   cast 'dismiss familiar'
          cast 'dismiss corpse'

See Also: RELEASE GOLEM, CALL FAMILIAR, ANIMATE DEAD

#
"CALL LIGHTNING" 

This spell will use the "force of nature" to make a lightning
strike the victim. It is therefore only possible to call lightning
outside, and it has to be raining (or worse).

The lightning will inflict damage dependent upon the casters
current level of mana.

Syntax:   cast 'call lightning' <victim>

See Also: WEATHER, "SUN RAY"

#
HARM 

This spell lets the caster call upon their god, to cause damage
to their enemy.

Syntax:   cast 'harm' <victim>

See Also: POWER HARM

#
FEAR 

This spell causes fear in the hearts of the brave.  Works best
when you need a break from fighting a particularly tough mob.

Syntax:   cast 'fear' <victim>

#
REFRESH 

This spell bestows more endurance upon the recipient by restoring
lost movement points.

Syntax:   cast 'refresh' <victim>

#
FLY 

This spell gives the victim the ability to fly into the clouds.
Great for getting into places where you were not meant to be, or
allowing someone to get farther with the same amount of endurance.
Fly is among the magicks that will be renewed each time it is cast,
such that once the magic is bestowed upon the caster the duration
will be restored to its highest possible amount.

Syntax:   cast 'fly' <victim>

See Also: MOVEMENT, FLIGHT OF THE BUMBLEBEE

#
"CONTINUAL LIGHT" 

This spell creates a ball of light just in the event you run
out of light.

Syntax:   cast 'continual light'

See Also: DARK ROOMS

#
"KNOW ALIGNMENT" 

This spell provides the caster an enchantment allowing them to know
a creatures alignment. At higher levels it can also indicate a
players alignment.

Syntax:   cast 'know alignment' <victim>

#
"DISPEL MAGIC" 

This spell is used to remove a major offensive or defensive affect from
the victim.  If successfully cast, it will randomly dispel a major affect.

Syntax:   cast 'dispel magic' <victim>

Note:     At higher levels, this spell often has the ability to target
          specific spells on a victim, though its effectiveness is much
          reduced as a result.

See Also: SPELLS

#
"CURE SERIOUS" 

This spell heals fractures, cuts, and serious wounds with ease.
The amount healed depends on the caster's level of knowledge of
the spell.

Syntax:   cast 'cure serious' <victim>

See Also: CURE LIGHT, CURE CRITIC

#
"CAUSE CRITICAL" 

This spell shatters bone, causes deep cuts, and critical wounds to the
victim.  The amount of physical damage done depends on the casters level
of knowledge of the spell.

Syntax:   cast 'cause critical' <victim>

See Also: CAUSE LIGHT, CAUSE SERIOUS

#
"CAUSE SERIOUS" 

This spell fractures bone, causes cuts, and serious wounds to the
victim.  The amount of physical damage done depends on the casters
level of knowledge of the spell.

Syntax:   cast 'cause serious' <victim>

See Also: CAUSE LIGHT, CAUSE CRITICAL

#
"CAUSE LIGHT" 

This spell causes minor cuts and bruises to the victim.  The amount of
physical damage done depends on the casters power.

Syntax:   cast 'cause light' <victim>

See Also: CAUSE SERIOUS, CAUSE CRITICAL

#
FLAMESTRIKE 

The caster calls forth a column of fire from the heavens to burn
the hapless victim.

Syntax:   cast 'flamestrike' <victim>

#
SHIELD 

This alteration spell creates a magical force shield surrounding
the victim thus improving his armor rating.

Syntax:   cast 'shield' <self>

See Also: STONESKIN, ARMOR

#
WEAKEN 

This spell will lower a victims strength and constitution depending on
the power of the caster.  If the victim's strength is lowered beyond
the minimum strength required to wield their weapon, the weapon will
drop into their inventory.

Syntax:   cast 'weaken' <victim>

See Also: STRENGTH, CURSE, DRUID, DISARM,
          ATTRITION, BLIND, POISON, DEBILITY

#
"MASS INVISIBILITY" 

This spell makes invisible every creature and player in the room.

Syntax:   cast 'mass invisibility'

See Also: INVISIBILITY, DETECT INVISIBILITY

#
"WHISTLE SHARP" WHISTLE 

This is the bard's most basic attack. He emits a high pitched tone
causing agony to the ears of his opponent. The nature of this attack
is such the bard can use this offense very quickly, often getting
many in before his foe has time to react.

Syntax:   sing 'whistle sharp' <victim>
Affect:   Causes damage to victim
Continuous: No

See Also: SONGS

#
"IRRESISTABLE DITTY" DITTY IRRESISTABLE 

This song is simple, but very addictive. Upon hearing it, everybody
in the room will at once stop what they are doing and dance along.
Before dancing, hidden characters must come out of their hiding spots
as well.

Syntax:   sing 'unresistable ditty'
Affect:   Area effect, Everyone takes a break to dance, unhides
Continuous: No

See Also: SONGS

#
"TRAVELLING MARCH" TRAVELLING MARCH 

The bard sings an encouraging song to regenerate the sore feet of
weary travelers.

Syntax:   sing 'travelling march'
Affect:   Regenerates group endurance
Continuous: Yes

See Also: SONGS, REFRESH, MOVEMENT

#
"BOUNTIFUL SONNET" BOUNTIFUL SONNET 

This song has the effect of feeding, and giving drink to, everyone in
the group.

Syntax:   sing 'bountiful sonnet'
Affect:   Removes hunger and thirst from group members
Continuous: No

See Also: SONGS, HUNGER, HEROES FEAST

#
"INSANE CHANT" INSANE CHANT 

This song is beyond words. With it the bard causes extreme, yet temporary,
psychological trauma within the heads of all those who are unlucky enough
to hear it. Unfortunately the bard is not above his own chaos and will be
affected as well.

Syntax:   sing 'insane chant'
Affect:   Area effect, drives everyone CrAZy!
Continuous: No

See Also: SONGS

#
"GLITTER DUST" GLITTER DUST 

While singing this enchanting song, the bard sprinkles some glittering dust
around the room, which clings to all players and creatures who happen to
be in the room at that time. While this dust is clinging to somebody, their
outline can be seen from anywhere in the room, making them unable to hide.
Invisible persons will also be able to be seen while they are affected by

glitter dust.

Syntax:   sing 'glitter dust'
Affect:   Area effect, all in room lose ability to hide
Continuous: No

See Also: SONGS, REFRESH, MOVEMENT

#
"SYNCHRONOUS CHORD" SYNCHRONOUS CHORD 

This song, when targeted at a mob, will tell you what player the mob
currently hates the most, to wit, the last person to piss off the mob
who has yet to die.

Syntax:   sing 'synchronous chord' <target>
Affect:   Tells what player the mob currently hates and is tracking.
Continuous: No

See Also: SONGS

#
"HEALING MELODY" HEALING MELODY 

When the bard sings this song, her words have a certain healing effect
which do wonders for mending the wounds of her group members.

Syntax:   sing 'healing melody'
Affect:   Group effect, regenerates hitpoints
Continuous: Yes

See Also: SONGS

#
"STICKY LULLABY" STICKY LULLABY 

This song will prevent the target from being able to flee. However,
this effect will fade once the target walks normally into another room,
that is, assuming their inability to flee doesn't get them killed first...

Syntax:   sing 'sticky lullaby' <target>
Affect:   Prevents target from fleeing
Continuous: No

See Also: SONGS

#
"REVEALING STACCATO" REVEALING STACCATO 

Similar to the prey-positioning ability of the bats in the caves of
Sorpigal, when singing a revealing stacato the bard emits a pulse whic
travels the room and upon meeting a hidden person, will give up that
person's position, making them apparent to all in the room.

Syntax:   sing 'revealing staccato'
Affect:   Area effect, causes hidden persons to become unhidden
Continuous: Yes

See Also: SONGS

#
"FLIGHT OF THE BUMBLEBEE" BUMBLEBEE 

While the bard is singing this song, all of his group members in room
with him will experience the weightlessness of the bumblebee, they will
in effect get the ability to fly.

Syntax:   sing 'flight of the bumblebee'
Affect:   Group effect, group members gain ability to fly
Continuous: Yes

See Also: SONGS, GROUP FLY, FLY

#
"JIG OF ALACRITY" ALACRITY 

This uppity song will galvanize the bard's group towards the current
battle. As their pace quickens, each group member will receive one
additional attack with their primary weapon every few rounds. The
effect of this song is more powerful than the mage's haste spell,
and the monk's similar ki ability.

Note: The bard singing this is not affected.

Syntax:   sing 'jig of alacrity'
Affect:   Group effect, group members receive an addition attack
Continuous: Yes, draining

See Also: SONGS, HASTE

#
"NOTE OF KNOWLEDGE" NOTE KNOWLEDGE 

With this song the bard is able to discover the inherent properties of an
item or person.  Some items have been imbued with magical properties which
prevent their being identified.

Syntax:   sing 'note of knowledge' <item or person>
Affect:   Display stats of target
Continuous: No

See Also: SONGS, IDENTIFY

#
"TERRIBLE CLEF" TERRIBLE CLEF 

This is the bard's most powerful direct damage song. This song can only be
used when already in combat and can not be targeted, the victim is always
the person whom the bard is currently fighting.

Syntax:   sing 'terrible clef'
Affect:   Causes damage to the victim
Continuous: Yes, for extent of combat

See Also: SONGS

#
"SOOTHING REMEMBERANCE" SOOTHING REMEMBERANCE 

Spellcasting is a very tiring and mind straining activity. This song will
help to alleviate some of those unwanted side effects, allowing casters
to more quickly achieve the elevated state of mind required for their
profession.

Syntax:   sing 'soothing rememberance'
Affect:   Group effect, regenerages mana
Continuous: Yes

See Also: SONGS, MANA

#
"FORGETFUL RHYTHM" FORGETFUL RHYTHM 

When successful, this song will cause the target to forget any grudges
which it may have against a player. Often the mob has left its normal
realm in order to address a greviance. This song has the additional
effect of making the mob go back home.

If unsuccessful the mob may turn upon the singer, depending upon its
disposition to someone interferring with its velleity.

Syntax:   sing 'forgetful rhythm' <mob>
Affect:   Stops target mob from hating any particular players
Continuous: No

See Also: SONGS, SYNCHRONOUS CHORD

#
"SEARCHING SONG" SEARCHING 

The melody of this will travel the realms in search of a chosen player
or mobile. If found it will return to the ears of the singer carrying
with it information revealing the location of the target as well as
what they happened to be doing at the time when the target was found.

Syntax:   sing 'searching song' <mob or player>
Affect:   Finds location of target
Continuous: No

See Also: SONGS, WIZEYE

#
"VIGILANT SIREN" VIGILANT SIREN 

The words of this song tell of the casualties befallen by many a careless
headlong adventurer. The tune will excite all of the singer's comrades
into a state of paranoia and as a result they will be next to impossible
to sneak up upon or take by surprise.

Syntax:   sing 'vigilant siren'
Affect:   Prevents group members from being backstabbed or ambushed.
Continuous: Yes, draining

See Also: SONGS, BACKSTAB

#
"ASTRAL CHANTY" ASTRAL CHANTY 

This song provides the bard's group with a direct passageway through the
aural planes to another location in the world.

Syntax:   sing 'astral chanty' <mob or player>
Affect:   Displaces group to new location occupied by target
Continuous: No

See Also: SONGS, PORTAL

#
"DISARMING LIMERICK" DISARMING LIMERICK 

This song affects any protective auras surrounding the victim. The song
interrupts the caster's concentration, thereby disrupting their magical
affects.

Syntax:   sing 'disarming limerick' <victim>
Affect:   Dispels magic.
Continuous: No

See Also: SONGS, DISPEL MAGIC, INSTRUMENT

#
"SHATTERING RESONANCE" SHATTERING RESONANCE 

Although temporary, the portals of mages and clerics, once successfuly
created, are some of the most stable forms of magic; they can not be
dispelled by normal means. This song destroys portals by non-magical
means. The bard creates a heavy resonance to shock the air around the
portal thereby shifting its alignment with the ethereal plane only
slighty, but enough to debase the magic upon which the portal was founded.

Syntax:   sing 'shattering resonance' <portal>
Affect:   Destroys portal
Continuous: No

See Also: SONGS, PORTAL

#
"FANATICAL FANFARE" FANATICAL FANFARE 

Having played for many audiences, including royalty and nobles, the bard
is often familiar with many types of fanfares and energetic tunes.  As
a result of this, they are often able to create an extended song that will
not only provide a small measure of energy to their party in combat, but
also prevent them from falling asleep while there is work to be done.
While the bard is playing this loud and abrasive melody, neither he nor
any member of his group can sleep or be put to sleep.  This spell requires
continuous use and an upkeep on the part of the bard.

Syntax:   sing 'fanatical fanfare'
Affect:   group insomnia while active
Continuous: Yes, draining

See Also: SONGS, INSOMNIA

#
"DISCHORDANT DIRGE" DISCHORDANT DIRGE 

The bard is often a master of harmony.  As a result of this, many bards are
familiar with disharmony or abrasive sounds as well.  This song, when sung
correctly, has a dischordant affect on charmed or magically summoned
beasts. Charmed or tamed creatures will often be freed from their
enchantment, and summoned or magical beings can be vanquished all
together!  Unfortunately this song does not seem to affect undead or
animated corpses.

Syntax:   sing 'dischordant dirge' <target>
Affect:   breaks charm affects or dismisses familiars
Continuous: No

See Also: SONGS, HOWL, DISMISS

#
"CRUSHING CRESCENDO" CRESCENDO 

As a master of all things musical, a bard knows how to fight
their opponents using nothing but their own voice.  One of the
songs that they may employ is that of the Crushing Crescendo.
While the damage caused by this song at its outset may be
minimal, it increases in damage as the bard increases their
vocal volume.

Syntax:   sing 'crushing crescendo' <target>
Affect:   Causes increasing amounts of damage to the target
Continuous: Yes, for extent of combat

See Also: SONG, ENCHANT WEAPON

#
HELP 

Following help is available:

help HELP       - This text.
help            - List several basic commands.
help KEYWORDS   - Displays a list of the keywords for all help topics.
                  By default, when you first start your character,
                  large chunks of output are split into 24 line chunks.
                  If you have changed this by typing: "toggle pager"
                  and if you have a small scrollback buffer, we recomend
                  you "toggle pager" again before doing: help KEYWORDS

Help searches for the word or words you specify.  An exact match is
required for help to return information.

Example:
 > 'help magic missile'
    will find the help text for the magic missile spell.

 > 'help mag '
   will not match anything.

Generally, as you are browsing the help topics, anything in all caps within
a help topic may be used as the keyword for a separate help topic in:
help <keyword>

The help topics have been made with the goal that if you can think of

a keyword or phrase that would make sense to have a help topic about,
then there should already be a topic about that.
For example, if you think to yourself, 'What happens if I die?'
You should be able to realize that you can type help death to find out.

See Also: KEYWORDS, ABBREVIATION

#
"ARMOR CLASS" AC "ARMOUR CLASS" 

This is a number that reflects how well armored you are, the lower the
better.  Well armored players are harder to hit.

The armor class scale is:

      100+ Naked person
        0  Well Armoured
      -100 Very Heavily Armoured
      -250 Divinely Armored
(and lower)

See Also: DEX, SCORE.

#
MANA 

Mana is a measure of your mental acuteness. Every spell requires a certain
amount of mana points. If the spell is cast successfully, that number is
subtracted from your total mana points. If not, only half of the amount is
subtracted. Mana regenerates at every tick. The rate of regeneration is
faster if you are resting, or faster yet if you're sleeping, and also
increases with age. The amount of mana you gain per level depends on your
intelligence, class and race. Mana can be purchased at the meta shop.

See Also: TICK, CAST, CLASSES, WISDOM, INTELLIGENCE, META

#
ATTRIBUTES STATS 

Attributes are the stats that make up the backbone of your character.
Some decide how much you can carry, while others decide how often
your spell works.  Stats can be artifically raised by equipment or
permanently raised at the meta shop. Each race has a different cap
for each stat.  These caps can be found in each race's help file.

Note that equipment cannot be used to raise a stat point to within
one point of its cap. The last two points must be meta'd.  For
example, a human's INT maxes out at 25. Equipment can only be used
to raise it to 23.  In order to get it to 25 it must be meta'd all
the way up. (This does not mean that you only need to meta twice
to get it to 25, unless of course your natural int is already 23
without equipment).

Each race's total maximum attributes add up to a total of 125. See
each race's individual help file for more detailed information.

Each attribute has a set of areas that they modifiy for your character
within the game.  This is also a part of the diversity of races.

See Also: STR, CON, DEX, WIS, INT, META, RACES, SKILLS, REQUISITES

#
INTELLIGENCE INT 

Intelligence (INT) is a rating of your character's intellectual prowess.
The more intelligent your character is, the more likely they are
to be successful at skills or spells with primary or secondary
requisites that need INT.

A higher INT often allows for a bonus in many areas, whereas a lower INT
will often incur a penalty. All attributes can be increased at the meta
shop located west of the Albatross Tavern off of Sativa Street.

Your character's intelligence affects:
 - How well they improve their skills with each practice session
 - Chances of automatically improving in a skill or spell with use
 - Magic Resistance

Furthermore, for Bards, Anti-Paladins, Rangers, and Mages, INT affects:
 - Mana or Ki regen bonus/penalty per tick
 - Bonus/Penalty to spell or song concentration

See Also: ATTRIBUTES, STR, WIS, DEX, CON, META, MANA, CONCENTRATION

#
WISDOM WIS 

Wisdom (WIS) is a rating of your character's insight or common sense.
The more wise your character is, the more likely they are
to be successful at skills or spells with primary or secondary
requisites that call for WIS.

A higher WIS often allows for a bonus in many areas, whereas a lower WIS
will often incur a penalty. All attributes can be increased at the meta
shop located west of the Albatross Tavern off of Sativa Street.

Your character's wisdom affects:
 - How many, if any, bonus practices your character receives at level
 - Energy Resistance

Furthermore, for Clerics, Druids, Paladins, and Monks, WIS affects:
 - Mana or Ki regen bonus/penalty per tick
 - Bonus/Penalty to spell or Ki Power concentration

See Also: ATTRIBUTES, STR, INT, DEX, CON, META, MANA, CONCENTRATION

#
DEXTERITY DEX 

Dexterity (DEX) is a rating of your character's speed and agility.
The more dextrous your character is, the more likely they are
to be successful at skills or spells with primary or secondary
requisites that call for DEX.

A higher DEX often allows for a bonus in many areas, whereas a lower DEX
will often incur a penalty. All attributes can be increased at the meta
shop located west of the Albatross Tavern off of Sativa Street.

Your character's dexterity affects:
 - Bonus/Penalty to your character's "to hit" roll
 - Bonus/Penalty to your character's "armour class"
 - Number of movement points gained per level
 - Fire Resistance

Note: Trolls, unlike other races (who use CON), use DEX as the attribute
      that determines their life-span.  A troll who's DEX reaches a
      number below 5 is PERMANENTLY dead and CANNOT BE RESTORED.
      As well, Trolls lose DEX as thair main stat loss, rather than CON.

See Also: ATTRIBUTES, STR, INT, WIS, CON, META, MOVEMENT, AC, "DEXDEATH"

#
CONSTITUTION CON 

Constitution (CON) is a rating of your character's health and hardiness.
The more resilliant your character is, the more likely they are
to be successful at skills or spells with primary or secondary
requisites that call for CON.

A higher CON often allows for a bonus in many areas, whereas a lower CON
will often incur a penalty. All attributes can be increased at the meta
shop located west of the Albatross Tavern off of Sativa Street.

Your character's constitution affects:
 - Movement and Hit Point regeneration per tick
 - Hit points gained at level
 - Poison resistance

Note: CON also plays a determining role in your character's life span.
      For all races (except trolls), a CON drop below 5 points will result
      in PERMANENT DEATH from which you CANNOT BE RESTORED.  All races
      (except trolls) lose CON as their main stat loss.

See Also: ATTRIBUTES, STR, INT, WIS, DEX, META, HP, "CONDEATH"

#
"HIT POINTS" HP 

One of the three vital statistics. The number of hit points you have
determines how much damage you can take before you die. Hit points
regenerate every tick, faster if you sleep or even rest. The amount of
hit points gained per level depends on the constitution among other
things. Hit points can also be purchased at the meta shop.

See Also: MANA, MOVEMENT, CONSTITUTION, META

#
META META-PHYSICIAN "META SHOP"

The Meta-physician will offer various services for sale, not the least
of which is to exchange some of your gold coins for platinum coins.
You will need platinum coins to purchase any other services the
Meta-physician has to offer.

Type 'list' when with him to see the services he offers, such as how to
exchange gold for platinum.

The Meta-physician is greedy, and realizes that once you have exchanged
your gold for his platinum, if he were to reverse the exchange, you
would have less platinum with which to purchase his services.  Being a
smart fellow, he naturally will refuse to do so.

Rumor has it that the Meta-physician has a twin brother who offers similar
services in his shop in some other township somewhere.  As yet, the
whereabouts of this other town remain unknown, and in fact it is not even
certain that such a township exists.

The Meta-physician will not respond to anyone simply by saying hello to
him.  Indeed, the Meta-physician frowns upon informality, and if one
were to use the short version of hello, by typing: hi meta, the
Meta-physician would respond with a quick and decisive harshness.

Note: You must be level 10 or over to use the the Meta-Physicians's
      services.

See Also: ATTRIBUTES, STR, INT, WIS, DEX, CON, HP, MANA, MOVES, KI

#
MOVEMENT MV MVS ENDURANCE MOVES 

This number measures your physical endurance. It decreases when you move
depending on the type of terrain you're travelling. It regenerates every
tick, faster if you sleep or rest.

See Also: TICK, META, DEX, CON

#
TICK PULSE 

Every so many seconds real time (about a minute), a mud hour passes.
During this time hit, mana, move, and ki points regenerate. These points
regenerate slowly over several intervals during each tick.

The intervals mentioned above are called 'pulses', and each pulse is
roughly 1/5 of a tick.

See Also: ATTRIBUTES, HIT POINTS, MANA, MOVEMENT, KI

#
LINKDEAD LINKDEADS 

A linkdead is a player who lost their link before quitting out of the
game. This happens for a number of reasons, ranging from the player
cutting link on purpose in order to change equipment, to a player having
their local server crash. A linkdead is easily recognized as one by the
'*linkdead*' in front of their name.

Note: Linkdeads characters CAN be stolen from.

Don't put *linkdead* in front of your name.  You will be asked to remove
it.  If you don't, you will lose this ability.

See Also: RULES, LINK, MULTIPLAYING

#
LINK 

A lot of players have problems with their links to the game.  This could
hurt you in various ways.  Basically you are no safer as a linkdead than
as a player with active control over your character.

I. If your link jams (freezes) you got a problem.  The only solution we
   can give is that you break your link as quickly as possible, so that
   you might proceed with establishing your new (and hopefully improved)
   link.

II. Due to blatant misuse of disconnecting, a reconnect lag has been
installed into the game.  After reconnecting you will be subject to a
bit of lag for a few seconds.  This is regardless of if you had previously
dropped link, or if you had kept your link live right up till the fresh
reconnect.

Some people like to break their link instead of quitting.  We have changed
link death and quitting so that dropping your link and just letting the
character lay there for hours on end while linkdead will cost you more
than if you had just typed "quit".  Please use the quit command.

See Also: RULES, SAVE, RENT

#
COMPACT 

If you have a small display you might want to use this command. It turns
off (or on) the extra new line after output to your screen causing things
to be closer together.  This allows more information on your screen at
once.  Many people prefer to leave this on to make things more readable.

Turn turn this on or off type:  toggle compact

See Also: TOGGLE

#
SAFE 

Throughout the mud are safe rooms.  You cannot be attacked in a safe
room unless you have a pkiller flag on you.  Thieves will also be unable
to steal in a safe room.  Safe rooms in Sorpigal include the Tavern,
the donations room, the board room, the Undertaker, the Meta Shop,
and a few others.  Be warned that a safe room may still allow the use
of magic -- which isn't so safe in some cases.

#
CONSENT 

You cannot take equipment from the corpse of a player who has been
killed by a mob unless that player has consented to the action.  To
enable another player to take items from your corpse:

type:  consent <playername>

Consented players are also able to buy your corpse at the Undertaker.

Syntax:   consent <player>

Note: You may not consent anyone under level 10.

See Also: CORPSE

#
CORPSE 

When you are killed by a mob, you leave a corpse, on which all of your
gold and equipment, with the exception of any godload items, remains.
You cannot take items from another player's corpse unless they have
consented.

When you are killed by another player, you will not leave a corpse
unless you have stolen from another player.

Note: Player characters under level 10 do not leave a corpse. Likewise,
      you may not consent a player character under level 10 to retrieve
      your equipment.

See Also: CONSENT, PSTEAL

#
AREA AREAS WORLD WORLDS ZONE ZONES 

The listings below are for groups of the approximate skill level given for
each cluster of areas. (Note: For exact directions to some of the newbie
areas, type help newbie areas)

  Newbie Areas               Novice Areas
  ------------               ------------

  Mud School                 Seaport of Sanderling
  Gangland                   Dreamland
  Graveyard                  Gnome Village
  Aerial Castle              Hobgoblins
  Newtonia City              High Seas
  Chess Match                Sorpigal Sewers
  Mushroom Caverns           Enchanted Woods
  The Mighty Tree            Mayfair and Underneath Gnomes
  Kilderry                   Apiary
                             Astoria
                             The Universe
                             Zykeia

  Intermediate               Advanced
  ------------               --------

  Arachnos                   Castle of the Dark
  Lizard Caverns             Drow City
  Morrowindl                 Everwinter
  Aborlon                    Hill Giants
  Mound of the Minotaurs     Mantari Tower
  Centaur Woods              The Blight
  Rivendell                  Castle of the Light
  Sorpigal City Walls        Druid's Keep
  Elemental Canyon           Etemophobia (Giant Forest)
  Mines of Moria             Paradise
  Newt Nativity              Pridith
  Tower of High Sorcery      Mount Parnassus and Maenads
  Chapel Catacombs           Orcish Hordes
  Desolate Swamp             Ruins of Damar
  Lost City of Thalos        Tarin
  Krys'kath Kingdom          Sienna Carnival
  Loch Fin                   Cloud Giants
  St. Colins' Monastary      Crystal Keep
  Behind the Mirror          Evermist
  Kryzhtyn's Rock            Naiad's Pool
  New York City              Paradise Mall
  Rainbow's Edge             Charwarma Forest
  Silverdale                 Northern Frozen Sea
  Trail to Mintia            Clock Tower of Bale'Nor
                             Troglodyte Caves

  Expert                     Veteran/Suicidal
  ------                     ----------------

  Iceberg Palace             Antmen Village
  Afterlife                  Death Kingdom
  Vhryllian Cleft            Demon Dryads
  Wastelands/Underworld      Enfania
  Castle of Thelia           Hu'uti Headhunters
  Olympus                    Klingon Homeworld
  Sorpigal Museum            Myrnhael Keep
  The Tundra                 Birdman's Castle
  Main/Auxillary Matrix      City of Zamar
  Nightmare Mansion          Ironforge
  Draconia                   Kingdom of Naryia
  Harpies in the Clouds      Meresis Mermen
  Negative Astral Plane      Shyntoa's Diary of the Daine
  Stargazer's Tower          Starship Enterprise
  The Dark Castle            Chaos Realm
  Zombie Cathedral           Lizard Rock
  Nethrol                    Assassin's Guild
  Pikipsi                    Githyanki
  Positive Astral Plane      Lower Enfans
  Qritcil Clutch             Pikipsi Dungeons
  Shaolin Monastary          Battlefield of Jundlehem
  Valhalla                   Crystal Dungeon
  Island Spire of Pseudaluce The Tower of Phyraz
                             Circle of Five

  Areas for Everyone
  ------------------

  Dwarf Forest
  Sorpigal City
  Sorpigal River
  South Sorpigal City
  Deeper in the Haon-Dor Forest
  In the Air
  Sea of Dreams

See Also: CREDITS, NEWBIE AREAS

#
CREDIT CREDITS 

This is a list crediting the authors of each area for their
work. To find the MUD credits, just type 'credits' with no
argument.

Aias                            Beyond the Gates of Paradise
Alfa                            The Graveyard
                                The Holy Grove
                                Moria, levels 3-4
Andre                           Ocean
Apocalypse                      Many assorted fixes and upgrades
Apollo                          Silverdale
Apshai                          In the Air
                                Mayfair Underneath
                                Newt Nativity
                                The Northern Frozen Sea
                                The Old Midgaard Aquaducts
Aquarius                        Sorpigal Caverns
Azazel                          Cloud Giants
                                Hill Giants
Azrael                          Beyond Haon'Dor (Etemophobia)
                                Fairview
Bob                             Nethrol
                                Vhryllian Cleft
Boccob                          The Tower of the Circle of Five
Bones                           Klingon Homeworld
                                Main Matrix
                                Starship Enterprise 1701-DC
Capulet                         Charwarma Forest
                                Sienna Carnival
Connor                          The Highlands
Copper                          Chapel Catacombs
                                In the Air
                                Plains North of Sorpigal
                                River of Sorpigal
Daphne                          Druids' Keep
                                Dryad's Pool
                                The Northern Frozen Sea
                                The Ruined Kingdom of Damar
Darkshadow                      Astoria
                                Elemental Canyon
                                New York
Dasein                          The Yauloth Camp
Dasein/Plump                    The Island Spire of Pseudaluce
Destler                         The Sorpigal Museum
Diku                            Moria, levels 1-2
                                Redferne's Residence
Dylan                           Harpies on the Clouds
Eas                             Dwarven Kingdom of Juergan

                                Shire
Elegon                          Drow City
Eleyre                          Death Kingdom
                                The Diary of Shyntoa of the Daine
                                Iliiki
                                Mryn'hael Keep

                                Olympus
                                The Qritcil Clutch
                                The Realm of the Krys'kath
                                The Sea Elf City of Naryia
Fenris                          The Blight
Flanders                        Wall around Sorpigal
Godflesh/Apocalypse             Crystal Dungeon
                                Crystal Keep
Gunthar                         Chess Board
Hatchet                         Mud School
Hendrix                         City of Zamar
Honeysuckle                     Pridith
                                St. Colin's Monastry
                                Kilderry
Iggie                           The Iceberg Palace
Imberline                       The Antmen Village
                                Caverns of the Gravspiders
                                Fields of Jundlehem
Irae                            Frozen Tundra and the Dark Castle
Justice/Apocalypse              The Clocktower of Bale'nor
                                The Pagoda of the Stonefist
Kate                            Behind the Mirror
                                City of Everwinter (Hyperboria)
                                Enchanted Woods
                                Paradise Mall
                                The Sea of Dreams
                                Seaport of Sanderling
                                Southern Sorpigal
Kaz                             The Chaos Realms
                                The Mantari Tower
Lathander                       Tower of the Mad Wizard Phyraz
Leysa                           Castle of the Dark
                                Castle of the Light
Liriel                          (see Daphne)
Llevity/Bonewrack               Death Kingdom
Luna                            Mt. Parnassus
                                Nightmare Mansion
                                The Sorpigal Museum
Maddix                          The Orcish Hordes
Metal                           Apiary
Mojo                            Toy Store
Natasha                         Pikipsi
Ozzy                            Rainbow's Edge
                                The Stargazer's Tower
Phire                           Lizard Rock
Pirahna                         Gnome Village (Mayfair)
Raff                            Gangland
                                Catacombs
Renango                         New York
Ronin                           New York
Rose                            The Dream Zone
                                Newtonia City
Sadus                           The City of Sorpigal
Skyler                          The Tower of High Sorcery
Slip                            Centaur Forest
                                Enfania
Tak                             Ironforge
                                Kryzhtyn's Rock
Tinker                          Morrowwindl/Aborlon
Urizen                          Arachnos
Uther                           The Lands of Mintia
                                Caverns of the Lizard
Valkyrie                        Valhalla and the Ragnarok
Vhaeraun                        Astral Plane
Wendy                           (see Luna)
Zifnab                          The Mound of the Minotaurs

The following areas have unknown authors.

                                Aerial Castle
                                Githyanki
                                Tarin
                                Universe
                                Wastelands
                                Zyekia

#
SUBSTITUTE SUB ^

Substitutions can be made to correct a typo or edit a previous
command slightly.

Syntax:   ^<old text>^<new text>

Example:  You type "Hey, You suck!"
The mud will the respond with "Huh?" as "Hey," is not a command.

If you had meant this to be a gossip, you simply type:
          ^Hey,^gossip Hey,
This will replace the text between the ^'s with the new text following.

#
SLIP 

A sleight of hand trick used by skilled thieves, this ability is
much like the steal skill, but it allows the thief to try to sneak
an item into someone's pocket, instead of removing an item from
someone's pocket. Also, you can use this skill to slip items into
your own containers.

Syntax:   slip <item> <person>
          slip <item> <container in YOUR inventory>

See Also: STEAL, PALM

#
LAY HANDS LAYHANDS "LAY HANDS" 

A paladin, due to his altruistic nature and stalwart devotion to his god,
has the ability to work minor miracles once in a while.  A paladin
skilled in the art of laying hands has the ability to infuse another with
life force, completely restoring the target's vitality.  However, such
miracles always come at a cost, as the paladin practicing this skill will
be almost completely incapacitated by the sheer strain on his or her
being.  Being as such, it is important for the paladin to be in at least
fair health to attempt such a draining exercise.  It is also important to
note that a paladin must not take a skill of this magnitude lightly, as
their god will only grant this power on special occasions.

Syntax:   layhands <target>

See Also: SKILLS, PALADIN

#
"FOCUSED REPELANCE" REPELANCE 

Of all the chosen classes, mages possess the most superior knowledge of the
magical arts. By taking advantage of this superiority they can surround
themselves with a mental shield so that when an opponent directs a spell at
him, the two foes will engage in a battle of the brains. If the mage wins
this encounter then the spell will be disolved, otherwise the spell will
go through as normal. Due to the exhausting nature of this activity, it can
only be undertaken at prolonged intervals.

Syntax:   repelance

See Also: SPELLS, REFLECT

#
SAVINGTHROW SAVINGTHROWS SAVES SPELLSAVE SPELLSAVES 

There are many types of magic throughout the realm and often the success
of many a spell depends strongly on the resistance of the victim to that
particular type of magic.  This resistance is seperated into six different
groupings: Fire, Cold, Energy, Acid, Magic, and Poison.

A successful "saving throw" generally has beneficial effects such as:
negating a spells effect or halving its damage.

Your individual saving throws can be viewed with the 'score' command.

Note: Higher resistance values are better.

See Also: SCORE

#
CINFO 

This command gives information about a clan, such as the leader of the
clan, if they have a contact email address, if they have a hall, etc.

If you are the leader of the clan you are checking, your login, logout,
and rdeath messages will also appear.

Syntax:   cinfo <clan number>

Use the "clans" command to find out clan numbers.

See Also: CLANS, CLAN HALLS, CLAN TAX

#
"SKILL QUEST" "SKILL QUESTS" SKILLQUEST SKILLQUESTS SQ SQS "TEACH ME PLEASE" 

The guilds of Sorpigal have employed, as their guildmasters, some of the
world's finest practitioners of their arts. However, none of these masters
know everything, nor are they willing to impart everything that they
do know upon an unproven adventurer. Therefore, in order to acquire many
skills and spells you will need to undertake what is known as a skill
quest. These will vary in difficulty according to the significance of
the skill in question. The quests themselves can come in many different
forms: some ask you to find a specific mob to ask [in which case, saying
'teach me please' in the same room as the mob usually will suffice],
others will including the finding and bringing back of certain desired
items, and still others will need the adventurer to slaughter a particular
mob [in which case getting the killing blow is very important]. Your
guildmaster should be able to provide you with a starting point for your
quest when you first try to practice a new skill or spell.

You should be advised that skill quests are not easy and simply
reaching the level at which one may reveal the clue for a certain quest
does not mean that one is ready for it. Many quests can not be completed
alone and it will behoove the quester to enlist the help of other
adventurers. Most importantly, skill quests will test your knowledge of
the world and in order to complete these quests you are encouraged to
explore, explore, and explore. Don't be surprised if, while going about
one quest, you stumble upon the solution to an entirely different
quest. Finally, once you have completed a skill quest, especially one
that requires a significant amount of thinking and exploring, you will
be in posession of priveledged information which you might find prudent
to withhold from other players. Skill quests are fun, yet at the same
time they require a good deal of effort, and in some instances the loss
to whom, you decide to give valuable skill quest information.

Here is a skill quest for a hypothetical skill named
"Random-Fighting-Skill":

>practice random-fighting-skill
Your guildmaster says 'I can not teach you this, but one regal brassmaster
by name of Flexx could most surely help you.'

  [At this point you would wander the world until you find Flexx]

>look
Flexx the grizzled trainer is here, begging for someone to instruct.
>say teach me please?
You say 'teach me please?'
Flexx turns your way, smiles, then proceeds to take you through numerous
fighting maneuvers.
Flexx says 'Oh, I so enjoy helping human figures improve in their
art forms.' You have learned Random-Fighting-Skill

See Also: SKILLS, PRACTICE, LEARN, WORLD

#
SETUP 

Some items in the game require a special setup process and affect
the entire room. These items include boobytraps, and scent dispensers. The
setup command is used to make these items work.

Example:  setup catstink

Syntax:   setup <item>

See Also: USE, PUSH, PULL, CLIMB, ASSEMBLE

#
SING SONG SONGS SINGING "BARD SONGS" LISTSONGS STOP "LIST SONGS" 

Bards make use of their class's major abilities by singing their songs.

Syntax:   sing <song(no spaces)> [target]

If the song name is more than one word then the song name must be
placed within single quotation marks should you choose to type out the
whole name.
Syntax:   sing '<long name of song>' [target]

Some songs are continuous, the bard will continue singing them until
they run out of ki (in the case of a song which continues to drain ki),
or the bard sings a different song. The effect of these songs will exist
as long as the bard is still singing. Other songs the bard will sing
through once and end the song, with the effect occuring upon finish.

The bard can quit singing entirely by singing the stop song: sing 'stop'
A bard can view a list of all the songs which they are currently able
to sing by using the 'listsongs' song: sing listsongs

Songs are acquired in the same way as spells and skills, that is,
by gaining levels and completing skill quests.

See Also: BARD, INSTRUMENT, SKILL, SKILL QUESTS, KI

#
INSTRUMENT INSTRUMENTS "MAGIC BANJOS OF DEATH" 

Instruments are items held by bards to aid them in their song and dance.
Some instruments are more useful for combat related musical needs; one such
example would be the war drums used to lead groups into battle. Other
instruments are more useful outside of combat, such as a fiddle which may
be used to reinvigorate weary adventurers.

See Also: BARD, SING, EQUIPMENT, HOLD

#
"WEAPON TYPES" "WEAPON BONUSES" WEAPONS 
WHIPPING CRUSHING PIERCING SLASHING BLUDGEONING "HAND TO HAND"

Once a player reaches the 30th level they will, depending upon their
class, be able to become more efficient in the use of specific
weapons. These are listed as the skills of: whipping, crushing, piercing,
slashing, bludgeoning, and hand to hand (for monks).  Improvement in
these areas will lead to a higher ability to actually hit ones opponent
as well as increased damage done by each successful hit.

In order to improve in these areas, one may practice as they do normal
skills, or they can wield a weapon of this type and autoimprove through
the use of this weapon in combat.

See Also: AUTOIMPROVE

#
WHIPPING CRUSHING PIERCING SLASHING BLUDGEONING "HAND TO HAND" 
"WEAPON TYPES" "WEAPON BONUSES" WEAPONS

Once a player reaches the 30th level they will, depending upon their
class, be able to become more efficient in the use of specific
weapons. These are listed as the skills of: whipping, crushing, piercing,
slashing, bludgeoning, and hand to hand (for monks).  Improvement in
these areas will lead to a higher ability to actually hit ones opponent
as well as increased damage done by each successful hit.

In order to improve in these areas, one may practice as they do normal
skills, or they can wield a weapon of this type and autoimprove through
the use of this weapon in combat.

See Also: AUTOIMPROVE

#
LIGHT "LIGHT LEVELS" "LIGHT SOURCES" LANTERN LANTERNS TORCH TORCHES 
DARKNESS "DARK ROOMS" "PITCH BLACK" NIGHT NIGHTIME DAYTIME DAYLIGHT DAY

Rooms in the game vary in the degree to which they are lit. Most rooms are
lit up and thus you can see everything in these rooms. However, some rooms
are dark and you will get the message "It is pitch black..." instead of
a room description in these rooms. Unless you have infravision, you will
also have trouble seeing mobs, and players in these rooms.
There are aids which you can use to help yourself see in these Darkened
rooms. Light sources, such as torches and laterns may be purchased in
town or found throughout the world. Glowing equipment can also be used
to increase light levels. Note that some rooms are exceptionally dark
and will require multiple light sources in order to light up a room to
where you can see everything.

Outside rooms will be light or dark depending upon the time of the day.

See Also: GLOWING, CONTINUAL LIGHT, GLOBE OF DARKNESS, INFRAVISION

#
DARKNESS "DARK ROOMS" "PITCH BLACK" NIGHT NIGHTIME DAYTIME DAYLIGHT DAY 
LIGHT "LIGHT LEVELS" "LIGHT SOURCES" LANTERN LANTERNS TORCH TORCHES

Rooms in the game vary in the degree to which they are lit. Most rooms are
lit up and thus you can see everything in these rooms. However, some rooms
are dark and you will get the message "It is pitch black..." instead of
a room description in these rooms. Unless you have infravision, you will
also have trouble seeing mobs, and players in these rooms.
There are aids which you can use to help yourself see in these Darkened
rooms. Light sources, such as torches and laterns may be purchased in
town or found throughout the world. Glowing equipment can also be used
to increase light levels. Note that some rooms are exceptionally dark
and will require multiple light sources in order to light up a room to
where you can see everything.

Outside rooms will be light or dark depending upon the time of the day.

See Also: GLOWING, CONTINUAL LIGHT, GLOBE OF DARKNESS, INFRAVISION

#
AUTOIMPROVE AUTOIMPROVEMENT "MOE BETTA" 

This is the process by which the repeated use of a skill, spell, or
song will improve in ability, much as if you had practiced it in your
guild. Actual improvement will come at random intervals, but in general
the more you make use of the skill, the higher the chance that it will
improve.  A high intelligence also increases the odds of this occurring.
Skills vary in difficulty to improve as well.  The categories are:
Easy (improves most often), Medium, and Hard (improves least often).

See Also: PRACTICE, SKILLS, SPELLS, LEARN, INT, WIS, REQUISITES

#
SPECIALIZATION 

This has not currently been implemented, but it will eventually be used
as a final stage of skill improvment giving a significant capstone affect
to that skill. For example, a player specialized in stun might have the
ability to stun HUGE mobs.

See Also: PRACTICE

#
"TWO HANDS" "TWO HANDERS" "TWO HANDED" TWOHANDED TWOHANDERS 

Some weapons require the use of two hands. In order to wield one of these
weapons you may not hold anything, wear a shield, or wield another weapon.

Some fighting classes have the ability to train specifically in the use
of two handed weapons.

See Also: WIELD, DUAL WIELD, POWERWIELD

#
UNIQUE 

Items flagged UNIQUE will restrict players from having more than one of
that item.

Many items which are flagged UNIQUE are done so to prevent players from
hoarding these items, others are UNIQUE because the immortals feel that
players shouldn't be able to use more than one of these items at the
same time, possibly because the item is abnormally powerful.

See Also: ITEM FLAGS

#
NOTRADE "NO TRADE" 

Items which are designated as NO TRADE can not be transfered to another
player in any way. It is therefore very important when you desire a NO
TRADE item that *you* are the one to pick it up, or loot the corpse of
the mob that carries it, not another group member or anyone else.

If somebody manages to steal a NO TRADE flagged item, instead of it going
into the thief's inventory, it will *poof* into the nether void, never to
be seen again.

NO TRADE items can not be picked up, or removed from a container in
conjunction with the 'get all' or 'get all.[item keyword]' commands. They
can still be gotten, however, but only individually.

See Also: ITEM FLAGS, EQUIPMENT FLAGS

#
"EQUIPMENT FLAGS" GLOW GLOWING HUM HUMMING 

Items can have a few flags which you will be designated by (Glowing),
(Humming), (Invisible), etc.

Glowing items will emit a small amount of light when they are worn which
can be helpful in lighting up dark rooms. Some items can be given this
glowing ability by means of the continual light spell.

Humming items currently have no special effects.

Newbie items cannot be stolen or put into containers.

Invisible items, just like invisible players and creatures, can only be
seen by those who have a special ability allowing them to see invisible
things.

See Also: EQUIPMENT, CONTINUAL LIGHT, DARK ROOMS, ITEM FLAGS, NOTRADE,
          UNIQUE

#
"ITEM FLAGS" DARK NONOTICE NO_NOTICE NODROP NOSAVE NO_SAVE NOLOCATE

For info on dark rooms, see help DARKNESS.
Items with the Dark flag can not be identified. Their abilities must be
discovered through their use.

Items with the nonotice flag are few and far between. When laying on
the ground they will not be seen when looking at a room. Additionaly
they will not be picked up when a "get all" command is used.

Nodrop items are cursed. They can not be dropped, given away, or
sacrificed.

Nosave items will, like keys, disappear when the person with it quits
out of the game, or when the mud reboots.

Objects with the Nolocate flag can not be found by the 'locate object'
spell.

See Also: EQUIPMENT FLAGS, CURSE, UNIQUE, NOTRADE, LOCATE OBJECT, IDENTIFY

#
MONK 

Monks are ascetic wanderers. They have withdrawn from life to find peace
and harmony within. They can wield weapons, yet are generally more lethal
in combat without them, especially at higher levels.  Monks may not wear
armor which impedes their motion; the sturdier it is, the less likely it
may be worn.  Monks and bards are the only classes which can wield the
power of mystical Ki energy.

Minimum Attribute Requirements:  14 Con, 14 Wis

Monks possess the following abilities:

  Skill                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      -----------      --------------

  Kick                         1           Dex               Str
  Dodge                        2           Dex               Int
  Redirect                     3           Int               Con
  Trip                         5           Dex               Str
  Shield Block                10           Str               Dex
  Rescue                      12           Wis               Int
  Eagleclaw                   17           Str               Dex
  Dual Wield                  20           Dex               Con
  Whipping                    30           Dex               Str
  Hand to Hand                30           Dex               Str
  Stun                        33           Dex               Str
  Blindfighting               38           Int               Dex
  Quiver                      40           Str               Int

  Ki Ability                Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  ----------                -----      ------------     --------------

  Purify                       8           Con               Wis
  Punch                       15           Str               Dex
  Sense                       21           Int               Wis
  Stance                      24           Con               Dex
  Speed                       27           Dex               Int
  Agility                     31           Dex               Con
  Storm                       35           Con               Wis
  Blast                       45           Wis               Str
  Disrupt                     47           Int               Dex

See Also: CLASSES, RACES, KI.

#
CLERIC 

Clerics are the healers of wounds and maladies. Their skills are very
useful if not integral to everyone. They are bringers of peace and
curators of mind and body. They do not fight well and do not have many
hit points and are therefore a little hard to play at first. They do get
some violent spells at higher levels, but their main purpose remains that
of healing.

Minimum Attribute Requirements:  15 Wis

Clerics possess the following abilities:

  Skill                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      -----------      --------------

  Dual Wield                  15           Dex               Con
  Shield Block                20           Str               Dex
  Bludgeoning                 30           Str               Dex
  Crushing                    30           Str               Dex

  Spell                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      ------------     --------------

  Cure Light                   1           Wis               Int
  Cause Light                  2           Str               Wis
  Armor                        3           Str               Int
  Continual Light              4           Int               Wis
  Detect Poison                5           Int               Wis
  Detect Magic                 6           Int               Wis
  Refresh                      7           Dex               Con
  Bless                        8           Wis               Con
  Create Water                 9           Int               Con
  Create Food                  9           Int               Con
  Cure Serious                10           Wis               Int
  Cause Serious               11           Str               Wis
  Detect Invisibility         12           Int               Dex
  Remove Poison               13           Con               Wis
  Dispel Minor                14           Wis               Con
  Cure Blind                  16           Int               Wis
  Sense Life                  17           Con               Int
  Sanctuary                   18           Wis               Int
  Remove Curse                19           Int               Wis
  Cure Critical               20           Wis               Int

  Cause Critical              21           Str               Wis
  Remove Paralysis            22           Int               Dex
  Locate Object               23           Int               Wis
  Word of Recall              24           Str               Wis
  Animate Dead                25           Str               Wis
  Dismiss Corpse              26           Con               Wis
  Group Fly                   27           Con               Dex
  Heal                        28           Wis               Int
  Harm                        29           Wis               Con
  Heroes Feast                31           Wis               Con
  Dispel Evil                 32           Wis               Str
  Dispel Good                 33           Wis               Str
  Call Lightning              34           Int               Con
  Control Weather             35           Con               Wis
  Protection From Evil        36           Wis               Dex
  Protection From Good        37           Wis               Dex
  Portal                      38           Str               Int
  True Sight                  39           Wis               Int
  Full Heal                   40           Wis               Int
  Power Harm                  41           Wis               Con
  Resist Cold                 42           Con               Str
  Resist Fire                 43           Int               Con
  Resist Energy               44           Con               Dex
  Dispel Magic                45           Int               Con
  Flamestrike                 46           Int               Wis
  Group Recall                47           Dex               Str
  Heal Spray                  48           Wis               Con
  Group Sanctuary             49           Str               Wis

See Also: CLASSES, RACES, CAST

#
"MAGIC USER" MAGE 
Magic users are spellcasters. They live, and occasionally die, by their
magic. They spend most of their time studying and therefore are weak and
frail. Due to their lack of alignment to deities, they possess little
healing power. Without magical augmentation, a mage has the least number
of attacks of any of the other classes.

Minimum Attribute Requirements:  15 Int

Magic Users possess the following abilities:

  Skill                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      -----------      --------------

  Focused Repelance           30           Dex               Int
  Piercing                    30           Dex               Str
  Bludgeoning                 30           Str               Dex

  Spell                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      ------------     --------------

  Magic Missile                1           Int               Str
  Ventriloquate                2           Wis               Int
  Detect Magic                 3           Int               Wis
  Detect Invisibility          4           Int               Dex
  Invisibility                 5           Int               Dex
  Burning Hands                6           Int               Dex
  Armor                        7           Str               Int
  Continual Light              8           Int               Wis
  Refresh                      9           Dex               Con
  Lightning Bolt              10           Int               Str
  Infravision                 11           Int               Dex
  Fly                         12           Dex               Con
  Strength                    13           Str               Con
  Know Alignment              14           Int               Wis
  Fear                        15           Wis               Int
  Identify                    16           Int               Wis
  Locate Object               17           Int               Wis
  Call Familiar               18           Int               Str
  Dismiss Familiar            18           Wis               Con
  Chill Touch                 20           Con               Wis
  Shield                      21           Wis               Str
  Soul Drain                  22           Wis               Con
  Enchant Weapon              24           Wis               Dex
  Dispel Minor                25           Wis               Con
  Mass Invisibility           26           Dex               Int
  Life Leech                  27           Con               Str
  Portal                      28           Str               Int
  Fireball                    29           Int               Con
  Sleep                       31           Int               Wis
  Haste                       33           Dex               Int
  True Sight                  34           Wis               Int
  Dispel Magic                35           Int               Con
  Resist Fire                 36           Int               Con
  Wizard Eye                  37           Int               Wis
  Teleport                    38           Con               Int
  Stoneskin                   39           Str               Con
  Meteor Swarm                40           Str               Int
  Word of Recall              42           Str               Wis
  Firestorm                   43           Int               Str
  Paralyze                    44           Int               Dex
  Hellstream                  45           Int               Str
  Resist Cold                 46           Con               Str
  Fireshield                  47           Con               Int
  Release Golem               48           Wis               Int
  Create Golem                48           Wis               Str
  Solar Gate                  49           Wis               Int

See Also: CLASSES, RACES, CAST

#
THIEF ROGUE 

Thieves make their living through their cunning and uncanny survival
instinct.  They are not as hardy as Warriors or as learned as Mages
and resort to shady ways. Their values bend to serve them. Nothing
is beyond a good hungry thief.

Minimum Attribute Requirements:  15 Dex

Thieves get the following skills:

  Skill                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      -----------      --------------

  Sneak                        1           Dex               Int
  Backstab                     2           Str               Dex
  Shield Block                 4           Str               Dex
  Pick                         6           Wis               Dex
  Hide                         7           Int               Wis
  Dual Wield                  10           Dex               Con
  Palm                        12           Dex               Int
  Slip                        13           Dex               Int
  Dodge                       15           Dex               Int
  Trip                        17           Dex               Str
  Pocket                      20           Int               Dex
  Stalk                       22           Con               Dex
  Steal                       25           Dex               Wis
  Blindfighting               28           Int               Dex
  Piercing                    30           Dex               Str
  Slashing                    30           Dex               Str
  Bludgeoning                 30           Str               Dex
  Crushing                    30           Str               Dex
  Deceit                      31           Wis               Int
  Circle                      35           Str               Dex
  Disarm                      38           Dex               Wis
  Dualbackstab                40           Dex               Int
  Eye Gouge                   42           Str               Con

  Vitalstrike                 45           Con               Dex

Note: Ogres may not be thieves.

See Also: CLASSES, RACES

#
ANTI-PALADIN ANTI "ANTI PALADIN" ANTIPALADIN

While the name suggests that this class is a fallen paladin, or one which
takes up conflict with the holy breed--nothing could be farther from the
truth.  The name is a misnomer; "Anti-Paladins" are treacherous
scoundrels, who have practiced the ways of combat, stealth, wizardry,
and even some black clerical arts to further their own ends.  Jacks-of-
all-trades, much like Rangers, yet those of that ilk tend to prefer
living comrades...These children of the darkness grow weaker as they veer
from the path of the service of evil.  It is also rumored that such dark
warriors have an innate ability to ward off the approach of their evil,
monstrous peers.  Only humans or orcs may be an anti-paladin.

Minimum Attribute Requirements:  14 Dex, 14 Int

Anti-Paladins get the following abilities:

  Skill                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      -----------      --------------

  Harmtouch                    1           Str               Con
  Kick                         2           Dex               Str
  Sneak                        3           Dex               Int
  Shield Block                 5           Str               Dex
  Dual Wield                  10           Dex               Con
  Backstab                    15           Str               Dex
  Hide                        17           Int               Wis
  Trip                        19           Dex               Str
  Double                      22           Dex               Int
  Dodge                       23           Dex               Int
  Piercing                    30           Dex               Str
  Slashing                    30           Dex               Str
  Bludgeoning                 30           Str               Dex
  Crushing                    30           Str               Dex
  Blindfighting               32           Int               Dex

  Spell                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      ------------     --------------

  Infravision                  7           Int               Dex
  Detect Good                  8           Wis               Int
  Shocking Grasp              11           Int               Dex
  Detect Invisibility         12           Int               Dex
  Invisibility                13           Int               Dex
  Chill Touch                 20           Con               Wis
  Vampiric Touch              25           Con               Int
  Poison                      27           Con               Wis
  Animate Dead                28           Str               Wis
  Dismiss Corpse              29           Con               Wis
  Visage of Hate              31           Int               Wis
  Globe of Darkness           33           Int               Dex
  Beacon                      35           Dex               Int
  Fear                        37           Wis               Int
  Dispel Good                 38           Wis               Str
  Acid Shield                 40           Int               Str
  Curse                       41           Wis               Con
  Firestorm                   42           Int               Str
  Stoneskin                   44           Str               Con
  Protection From Good        45           Wis               Dex
  Acid Blast                  48           Str               Int
  Vampiric Aura (Quest)       50           Int               Con

See Also: CLASSES, RACES, CAST

#
PALADIN PAL 

Paladins are the Holy Knights of the Gods. They are incorrigibly good and
noble, with unbending values. They inherit their power directly from their
Gods, who are quick to withdraw it if the paladin turns toward the dark
side.  Only humans or elves may be a paladin.

Minimum Attribute Requirements:  14 Str, 14 Wis

Paladins get the following abilities:

  Skill                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      -----------      --------------

  Layhands                     1           Con               Wis
  Kick                         2           Dex               Str
  Double                       5           Dex               Int
  Shield Block                 7           Str               Dex
  Rescue                       8           Wis               Int
  Dual Wield                  10           Dex               Con
  Parry                       23           Dex               Wis
  Bash                        25           Str               Con
  Slashing                    30           Dex               Str
  Bludgeoning                 30           Str               Dex
  Crushing                    30           Str               Dex
  Triple                      33           Dex               Int
  Two Handers                 35           Str               Con

  Spell                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      ------------     --------------

  Bless                        3           Wis               Con
  Cure Light                   9           Wis               Int
  Detect Poison               11           Int               Wis
  Create Food                 12           Int               Con
  Create Water                13           Int               Con
  Cure Serious                15           Wis               Int
  Detect Evil                 17           Int               Wis
  Remove Poison               18           Con               Wis
  Detect Invisibility         20           Int               Dex
  Cure Critical               22           Wis               Int
  Sense Life                  26           Con               Int
  Strength                    28           Str               Con
  Earthquake                  29           Dex               Wis
  Blessed Halo                31           Wis               Int
  Heal                        37           Wis               Int
  Harm                        38           Wis               Con
  Sanctuary                   40           Wis               Int
  Armor                       41           Str               Int
  Dispel Evil                 42           Wis               Str
  Protection From Evil        45           Wis               Dex
  Power Harm                  48           Wis               Con
  Holy Aura (Quest)           50           Wis               Str

See Also: CLASSES, RACES, CAST

#
BARBARIAN BARB 

Barbarians are big dumb merciless fighters. They anger easily, forgive
easily, so treat them as you would little children. Their prowess in
battle is awesome so you better not be on the opposite side of an
angry barbarian.

Minimum Attribute Requirements:  14 Str, 14 Con

Barbarians have the following abilities:

  Skill                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      -----------      --------------

  Dual Wield                   1           Dex               Con
  Bash                         2           Str               Con
  Kick                         3           Dex               Str
  Parry                        5           Dex               Wis
  Double                       8           Dex               Int
  Shield Block                10           Str               Dex
  Blood Fury                  12           Con               Wis
  Crazedassault               15           Wis               Str
  Frenzy                      18           Con               Int
  Rage                        20           Con               Str
  Triple                      25           Dex               Int
  Battlecry                   27           Wis               Int
  Blindfighting               28           Int               Dex
  Whipping                    30           Dex               Str
  Slashing                    30           Dex               Str
  Bludgeoning                 30           Str               Dex
  Crushing                    30           Str               Dex
  Ferocity                    31           Int               Str
  Headbutt                    33           Con               Wis
  Two Handers                 35           Str               Con
  Archery                     38           Dex               Wis
  Berserk                     40           Str               Con
  Hitall                      45           Str               Con
  Magic Resistance            47           Int               Con
  Bullrush (Quest)            50           Str               Con

Note: Pixies may not be Barbarians.

See Also: CLASSES, RACES

#
RANGER 

Rangers are adventurers who have come to acquire a very strong love for,
and knowledge of, the natural world. While not quite as in tune with the
spirits of the forest as the druids, rangers can still excercise a very
potent control over the beasts and plants of the woods. They can tame the
wild animals with but a look, and, although they may -look- fragile, their
skills in battle are incredible.

Minimum Attribute Requirements:  14 Dex, 14 Con

Rangers get the following abilities:

  Skill                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      -----------      --------------

  Hide                         2           Int               Wis
  Kick                         3           Dex               Str
  Dual Wield                   5           Dex               Con
  Redirect                     7           Int               Con
  Shield Block                10           Str               Dex
  Tame                        11           Wis               Con
  Double                      12           Dex               Int
  Forage                      16           Int               Con
  Archery                     20           Dex               Wis
  Blindfighting               21           Int               Dex
  Parry                       22           Dex               Wis
  Ability to use wind arrows  26           Int               Dex
  Track                       28           Wis               Int
  Piercing                    30           Dex               Str
  Slashing                    30           Dex               Str
  Whipping                    30           Dex               Str
  Ability to use frost arrows 31           Con               Dex
  Rescue                      32           Wis               Int
  Ambush                      35           Int               Dex
  Ability to use fire arrows  36           Wis               Dex
  Stun                        40           Dex               Str
  Ability to use earth arrows 41           Str               Dex
  Disarm                      42           Dex               Wis

  Spell                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      ------------     --------------

  Bee Sting                    1           Con               Wis
  Eyes of the Owl              8           Int               Dex
  Feline Agility              14           Dex               Int
  Bee Swarm                   15           Con               Wis
  Entangle                    18           Wis               Dex
  Herb Lore                   23           Int               Wis
  Poison                      25           Con               Wis
  Barkskin                    29           Con               Dex
  Call Follower               38           Con               Str
  Forest Meld                 45           Wis               Dex
  Camouflage                  46           Int               Dex
  Creeping Death              48           Wis               Str

See Also: CLASSES, RACES, CAST

#
WARRIOR WARRIORS WAR 

This class encompasses the individuals who make their way through life
through the skill of their arms. Stronger and more resilient than
other classes, they're also not very smart. Possessing no magic, they
rely on brute force.

Minimum Attribute Requirements:  15 Str

Warriors get the following skills:

  Skill                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      -----------      --------------

  Kick                         1           Dex               Str
  Bash                         2           Str               Con
  Redirect                     4           Int               Con
  Rescue                       5           Wis               Int
  Double                       7           Dex               Int
  Disarm                      10           Dex               Wis
  Headbutt                    12           Con               Wis
  Shield Block                15           Str               Dex
  Retreat                     17           Wis               Int
  Frenzy                      18           Con               Int
  Parry                       20           Dex               Wis
  Blindfighting               21           Int               Dex
  Triple                      23           Dex               Int
  Hitall                      25           Str               Con
  Dual Wield                  28           Dex               Con
  Piercing                    30           Dex               Str
  Slashing                    30           Dex               Str
  Whipping                    30           Dex               Str
  Bludgeoning                 30           Str               Dex
  Crushing                    30           Str               Dex
  Tactics                     31           Int               Wis
  Archery                     32           Dex               Wis
  Stun                        35           Dex               Str
  Guard                       37           Str               Wis
  Deathstroke                 39           Str               Int
  Riposte                     40           Int               Dex
  Two Handers                 42           Str               Con
  Skewer                      45           Str               Con
  Blade Shield                47           Con               Dex

See Also: CLASSES, RACES

#
BARD BARDS 

Bards are the ancient storytellers of Sorpigal, they keep the legends alive
through song and dance. Their voices can at times become enchanting, weaved
with magical powers. Bards have a multitude of songs at their disposal for
various occasions. Many of the bard's songs have an entire group effect
which makes bards optimal in these situations.

Minimum Attribute Requirements:  14 Con, 14 Int

Bards get the following abilities:

  Skill                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      -----------      --------------

  Dodge                        5           Dex               Int
  Hide                         7           Int               Wis
  Trip                        10           Dex               Str
  Double                      26           Dex               Int
  Piercing                    30           Dex               Str
  Slashing                    30           Dex               Str
  Bludgeoning                 30           Str               Dex
  Crushing                    30           Str               Dex

  Songs                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      ------------     --------------

  Listsongs                    1           Int               Wis
  Whistle Sharp                1           Str               Int
  Stop                         2           Int               Wis
  Irresistable Ditty           3           Dex               Wis
  Travelling March             9           Dex               Con
  Bountiful Sonnet            12           Con               Wis
  Healing Melody              13           Wis               Con
  Glitter Dust                15           Int               Dex
  Synchronous Chord           17           Int               Str
  Sticky Lullaby              18           Str               Wis
  Flight of the Bumblebee     20           Dex               Int
  Note of Knowledge           21           Int               Wis
  Fanatical Fanfare           23           Con               Int
  Revealing Staccato          25           Int               Dex
  Terrible Clef               28           Int               Str
  Soothing Rememberance       31           Int               Wis
  Searching Song              32           Int               Dex
  Dischordant Dirge           34           Wis               Con
  Insane Chant                35           Wis               Int
  Jig of Alacrity             38           Dex               Con
  Vigilant Siren              40           Int               Con
  Forgetful Rhythm            42           Int               Str
  Disarming Limerick          43           Con               Int
  Astral Chanty               45           Str               Dex
  Crushing Crescendo          46           Con               Str
  Shattering Resonance        48           Str               Con
  Hypnotic Harmony (Quest)    50           Int               Wis

See Also: CLASSES, RACES, SING, SONGS, INSTRUMENTS, KI

#
DRUID DRUIDS 

By living in tune with nature, druids are able to call upon the elements to
help protect them from those who do them harm.  While they may seem weak in
hand-to-hand combat, druids can actually be quite formidable.

Minimum Attribute Requirements:  14 Wis, 14 Int

Druids get the following abilities:

  Skill                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      -----------      --------------

  Whipping                    30           Dex               Str
  Crushing                    30           Str               Dex
  Bludgeoning                 30           Str               Dex
  Forage                      43           Int               Con

  Spell                     Level      Primary Req.     Secondary Req.
  -----                     -----      ------------     --------------

  Blue Bird                    1           Wis               Dex
  Eyes of the Owl              2           Int               Dex
  Cure Light                   3           Wis               Int
  Create Water                 5           Int               Con
  Attrition                    6           Con               Dex
  Create Food                  8           Int               Con
  Sense Life                  10           Con               Int
  Weaken                      11           Str               Con
  Cure Serious                12           Wis               Int
  Camouflage                  14           Int               Dex
  Oaken Fortitude             15           Con               Str
  Water Breathing             17           Dex               Int
  Resist Acid                 18           Con               Wis
  Stoneshield                 20           Str               Wis
  Poison                      21           Con               Wis
  Cure Critical               23           Wis               Int
  Call Familiar               25           Int               Str
  Dismiss Familiar            26           Wis               Con
  Debility                    27           Dex               Con
  Drown                       28           Int               Con
  Entangle                    29           Wis               Dex
  Rapid Mend                  31           Wis               Int
  Herb Lore                   32           Int               Wis
  Lighted Path                33           Wis               Dex
  Curse                       34           Wis               Con
  Sun Ray                     35           Int               Wis
  Control Weather             36           Con               Wis
  Barkskin                    37           Con               Dex
  Iron Roots                  38           Str               Dex
  Earthquake                  40           Dex               Wis
  Lightning Shield            41           Wis               Int
  Blindness                   42           Con               Wis
  Stoneskin                   44           Str               Con
  Power Heal                  45           Wis               Str
  Forest Meld                 46           Wis               Dex
  Greater Stoneshield         47           Str               Wis
  Colour Spray                48           Wis               Int
  Summon                      49           Int               Str

See Also: CLASSES, RACES, CAST

#
"GROUP SKILLS" 

This is special set of skills that various classes have which will affect
everyone in their group but themselves.

See Also: SKILLS, PRACTICE

#
FEROCITY AGGRESSION 

Barbarian group skill

With this skill the barbarian incites his group into an invigorating
physical state. They will find themselves with not only larger physiques
but also faster regenerating ones.

Affect:   50 hps, +1 hps regen to all group members but barbarian using
          the skill

See Also: GROUP SKILLS, SKILLS, PRACTICE, BARBARIAN

#
"BLESSED HALO" 

Paladin group skill (but it's actually a spell)

Paladins have the ability to bestow a blessing upon their groupmates that
increases their combat prowess. Opponents will find it divinley harder to
evade the paladin's group.

Affect:   +3 hit to all group members but paladin using the skill

See Also: GROUP SKILLS, SKILLS, PRACTICE, PALADIN

#
"VISAGE OF HATE" 

Antipaladin group skill (but it's actually a spell)

Antipaladin's have the ability to manifest in their countenance images
of pure hatred which will infest their adventuring party with increased
clout with a minor cost to their ability to accurately land their blows.

Affect:   -1 hit, +2 dam to all group members but antipaladin using the
          skill.

See Also: GROUP SKILLS, SKILLS, PRACTICE, ANTIPALADIN

#
TACTICS 

Warrior group skill

With this skill the warrior can impart proper melee strategy upon
his fellow group members, increasing their fighting abilities.

Affect:   +1 hit, +1 dam to all group members but warrior using the skill

See Also: GROUP SKILLS, SKILLS, PRACTICE, WARRIOR

#
"MAGIC RESISTANCE" MAGICRESISTANCE 

Barbarians, due to their hardy nature, receive heightened magic resistance
as the result of their intense physical training.

While this skill acts automatically, it still must be trained to gain
higher amounts of resistance.

See Also: BARBARIAN

#
"KI AGILITY" 

Monk group skill

This skill will channel the monk's energy throughout the group serving
to make it's members more difficult to hit, in addition to improving
endurance regenerating abilities.

Affect:   -20 armor, +1 move regen to all group members but monk using the
          skill

See Also: GROUP SKILLS, SKILLS, PRACTICE, MONK

#
DECEIT 

Thief group skill

Eavesdropping is one of the thief's many unsung tasks. This skill will
allow the thief to share a bit of the arcane lore they've picked up
during their thievery.

Affect:   +1 hit, +1 dam, +1 mana regen to all group members but thief

See Also: GROUP SKILLS, SKILLS, PRACTICE, THIEF

#
"QUEST SKILLS" "QUEST SKILL" 

Not to be confused with Skill Quests. Quest skills are rather powerful
skills which must be obtained by completing a fairly lengthy and tricky
mob generated quest. There is only one quest skill per class and it is
unique to that class. These quests are not doable until you are level 50.

See Also: SKILL QUEST, SKILLS

#
"HYPNOTIC HARMONY" HYPNOTIC HARMONY 

Throughout the ages, minstrels have learned how to engage their audience
with both story and song.  Some of the more clever practicioners of this
merry profession have perfected the art of mesmerizing those who hear
their hypnotic voice.  To this effect, bards have developed a song that
allows them to charm one creature (at a time) into being completely loyal
to their every whim and wish.  This hypnotic harmony, however, only lasts
so long, and the bard must be wary of their victim's negative reaction to
being charmed.

Syntax:  sing 'hypnotic harmony' <target>

See Also:  QUEST SKILLS, SKILLS, CLASSES, BARD

#
"HOLY AURA" HOLYAURA 

Paladin quest skill

Legend has it that the ancient Paladins had a remarkable protective
spell that would cut by half all damage they inncured. Unfortunately
much of that knowledge has been lost and those purporting to have this
ability, can only conjure it in less powerful forms. There is, however,
one cloistered school of Paldins who have retained most of this ancient
learning. They have devised a newer form of this ancient sanctuary that,
while it will not work in conjuction with it's newer clones, results in
an unfathomable degree of protection. It is referred to as the holy aura
There are a few drawbacks: the spell can not be cast on others, it does
not stack with normal sanctuary, and the paladin must choose whether they
want the protection to cover physical or magical damge.  Furthermore, due
to the strength and severity of asking this boon of your god, the casting
of Holy Aura redcues your "good standing" with them and can only be cast
once per day.

Syntax:   cast 'holy aura' physical (to protect against physical damage)
          cast 'holy aura' magic (to protect against magic and ki/songs)

See Also: QUEST SKILLS, SKILLS, QUEST, CLERIC

#
BULLRUSH 

Barbarian quest skill

Barbarians--lacking the cunning of thieves, the foresight of antipaladins,
or the quickness of rangers--are known to often charge impetuously
into dangerous situations with disastrous consequences. Sensing their
weakness, one tribe of barbarians has developed the technique of the
bullrush. A barbarian possessing this ability can enter a room populated
with enemies and initiate an attack before anyone has a chance to
respond. Only a premeditated ambush can foil this aggression.

Syntax:   bullrush <direction> <target>

See Also: QUEST SKILLS, SKILLS, BARBARIAN

#
"VAMPIRIC AURA" 

Anti-Paladin Quest Skill

This spell will surround the antipaladin with the most wicked maleficence.
Those foolish enough to attack an antipaladin with this aura will find that
their lifeforce will at times be magically transferred to the antipaladin.

Syntax:   cast 'vampiric aura'

See Also: QUEST SKILLS, SKILLS, ANTIPALADIN

#
SLANG VOCABULARY GLOSSARY DICTONARY JARGON 

The mud community has a lot of unique expressions which may be unknown
to a new player. Here is a brief list which you might want to familarize
yourself with.

imm     - Immortal
imp     - Implementor, the highest level immortal
imp'ed  - Not to be confused with the past tense of an implementor,
          which makes no sense.
          It actually refers to some procedure or bit of code, or a new
          area being implemented.
mob     - Mobile, a 'monster' or 'creature'
pc      - A player character
npc     - Non Player Character, same as a mob

rk      - Real kill, the death of a player by a mobile.
rkill   -
   As a noun: The event of a player getting killed by a mobile. This may
              or may not be caused by another player intentionally.
              Example:
              "I've been the victim of 3 rkills today" meaning the speak-
              er's character was killed by a mobile three times that day.

   As a verb: The action of causing someone to be killed by a mob.
              Examples:
              "Wexx rkilled Mindcrime" meaning Wexx caused Mindcrime
               to get killed by a mobile.
              "I got rkilled by a poodle" meaning the speaker let himself
              get killed by a poodle.

cr    - Corpse Retrieval, the act of trying to recover (or having someone
        recover for you) all of your equipment from your corpse after a
        rk (see above) without going to the morgue to purchase it.
        Example:
        gossip  I just died, can anyone do a CR for me?

pk    - Player kill, the death of a player by another player
pkill -
   As a noun: "Stromboli has 50 pkills already today!" meaning Stromboli
              killed other players 50 times that day.

   As a verb: "Argento is a bastard, all he does is pkill people!" meaning
              Argento is of illegitimate birth and kills other players.

dt    - Death trap, a room containing monsters that will guarantee a rkill
sq    - Skill quest (the generic term includes spell quests)
quest skill - I know that it seems strange to say that a quest skill and
              a skill quest are different things, but thats the way it is.
              This is like a standard skill quest, except that it is
              signifigantly more complex and difficult.
              Generally each class has but one such quest skill.
              The generic term includes spell quests.

quest sq    - Somestimes a quest skill is refered to as a
              "quest skill quest".  Again, I know this seems
              redundant, but thats the jargon that has evolved here.

ld    - Linkdead, someone who has lost their connection to the mud without
        properly quitting out.

nod   - an expression of agreement
chode - an expression of dislike

tank  - If you are new here but not new to mudding, you may have used the
        term "buffer" to mean the same thing.
        The "tank" in any battle is whoever or whatever, on your side of
        fight, that is taking whatever the other side of the battle is
        dishing out.  Or getting hurt in other words.
        Note that if the other side of the battle has multiple hitters
        on their side, your side may have multiple tanks (like it or not).

sanc  - Sanctuary, a cleric and paladin spell
di    - Detect invisiblity, a spell that lets
        one see invisible people and items.

Fakesell - Commiting to sell an item over the auction (or other) channel
           and failing to hand over the item after the payment has been
           received.  Often the fakeseller doesn't even have the item
           they're "selling"

noob - A newbie. If you don't know this expression, consider yourself one.
newbie - noob, a new player

Expressions of humor
--------------------

rofl - Rolling On the Floor Laughing
lol  - Laughing Out Loud

:) :-) - The regular smiley faces

  ^_^  - The gay anime smiley face

  Oo   - The incredulous "squinting" smiley

( . )( . ) - bOObs

See Also: NEWBIE

#
"GETTING STARTED" GETTINGSTARTED START STARTING 

Obviously you are new. Here is a brief list of steps to get you on
your feet

1) If you havn't done so already type: toggle ansi or toggle vt100.
   Usually the former is best.  This will make the game look much more
   lively. For more info see help toggle.

2) You will also want to give yourself a useful prompt.
   Here are some examples:

   For a pure fighter class (warrior, thief, or barbarian) type:
   prompt Hps: %h/%H  Move: %v/%V Tank: %t Opp %f>

   For a class that uses ki (monk, bard) type:
   prompt Hps: %h/%H  Ki: %k/%K  Move: %v/%V Tank: %t Opp %f>

   For spellcaster classes
   (cleric, mage, druid, ranger, paladin, anti) use:
   prompt Hps: %h/%H  Mana: %m/%M  Move: %v/%V Tank: %t Opp %f>

   Prompt can become much more elaborate so be sure to check out
   "help prompt" sometime.

3) Go up into the newbie school.

4) Please make sure to read the following helpfiles: 'help rules',
   'help bot', and 'help multi'.

See Also: NEWBIE

#
"HELPFILE EDITOR GUIDE" 

It's ok that this topic is here, no one will try help on
"helpfile editor guide" unless they are one of the editors.

From a technical standpoint, the longest any line in the helpfile
should be is 75 characters.  This number based on the length of
all but a few lines from the original helpfile.

More importantly, 75 gives us a buffer of 4 spaces where nothing
bad happens.

If there did happen to be a long line, what happens is after the
79th column, the mud inserts a return control character in the
output of what gets sent to the user that typed help whatever.

Some clients will ignore the return mark, which makes it look like
nothing is wrong.

Some clients interpret the return mark properly, which means that
the insertion point gets put back at the front of the line, and
anything already there starts getting overwritten with the 80th
character from that line.  This makes the line look like it has
typos on it, and pretty bad ones at that.

Such clients that do this include the builtin telnet in windows,
for example.

No one uses windows telnet, so why does this matter?
Actually, people that are most likely to be using windows telnet
are newbies to mudding in general, not just newbies to DC.

To a total newbie, the less garbled everything is, the more likely
they will stay and play.

(Side note:  I mentioned that a client that does this is working       )
(properly...  Thats true.  From the standpoint of a programmer making  )
(a telnet client, the assumption should be that whatever is sent from  )
(the server to the client, should be displayed (or interpreted).       )
(There are conceivable scenarios where a return mark is part of        )
(some special formatting, and to ignore it would mess up the output.   )

(Therefore, when a help topic looks messed up because of a long line,  )
(the fault is not in the client.  The fault is in the mud.  We, as the )
(editors, *COULD* ask the coders to fix the help engine so a return mark)
(is not put after the 79th column, but then we get into issues like    )
(linewrapping with various clients.  And its easier to just fix the    )
(line length within the helpfile ourselves anyway.                     )

However, if anyone slips and makes lines longer than 79 characters,
its no big deal.  Wexx will periodically run the helpfile through a
filter which will fix long lines.

The filter will take a long line, and chop it at the last space on or
before the 76th column (so the last non-space on the line is the 75th).

The remainder of the long line is put on the next line down.
The next line after that is added to the previous line.
Lather, rinse repeat.

Specially formatted lines, such as those in a table of spell listings,
are neither chopped nor added to the previous line.

Therefore, such lines will need to be manually edited if they are too long.
The filter will mark these lines for easy locating, but they still need
to be edited manually (by Wexx).  For that reason, if everyone can keep
lines 75 characters or less, particularly with specially formatted
lines, the filtering process can be quick and painless, as well as done
less often.

The filter does rely on the assumption that there are no <shift-7's>
(ampersand) within the helpfile, therefore before it gets to that point
in the process, it will convert all ampersands to "and".  (Actually they
just get marked for manual editing, like formatted lines.)  So if
ampersands can be avoided, thats helpful.

Question:
    What about when there are so many keywords on the keyword line that
    they wont all fit in 79 or less columns?

Answer:
   No problem!  Keyword lines can be of unlimited length.
   Wexx will apply the workaround he has come up with whenever he runs
   the helpfile through the filter.

   The workaround is:
   Split keyword line, Duplicate topic, swap 1st and 2nd lines from
   split keyword line in the duplicate.

Example:

BEFORE work-around is applied:

Pound sign (#) would normally be on this line by itself:
REALLY LONG KEYWORD LINE, PRETEND IT IS LONGER THAN 79 COLUMNS

The above keyword line will be split in 2.
If this block is the duplicate, then the 1st and 2nd
keyword lines were swapped after being split.
This is the last line of hypothetical work-around help topic.

See Also: NOTHING

AFTER  work-around is applied:

Pound sign (#) would normally be on this line by itself:
REALLY LONG KEYWORD LINE,
PRETEND IT IS LONGER THAN 79 COLUMNS

The above keyword line will be split in 2.
If this block is the duplicate, then the 1st and 2nd
keyword lines were swapped after being split.
This is the last line of hypothetical work-around help topic.

See Also: NOTHING

Pound sign (#) would normally be on this line by itself:
PRETEND IT IS LONGER THAN 79 COLUMNS
REALLY LONG KEYWORD LINE,

The above keyword line will be split in 2.
If this block is the duplicate, then the 1st and 2nd
keyword lines were swapped after being split.
This is the last line of hypothetical work-around help topic.

See Also: NOTHING

===================================================
End of work-around example.

#
KEYWORDS "KEYWORD LIST" "HELPFILE LIST" KEYPHRASE KEYWORD 

The following is a helpfile keyword/keyphrase list:
Included is the first keyword (or phrase) only, from each help topic.
Phrases are always in double quotes.
Topics with really long keyword lines may have 2 keywords listed.

IMPERSONATION  TARGET  HOUSERULES  GUIDE  POTATO  AGE  AFK  REQUISITE
"STAT LOSS"  "DEATH TRAP"  ROUTER  IMMUNE  EVASION  FOCUS  ILLUSION
BLOODLUST  POWERWIELD  "BATMAN FOREVER"  LACTAID  BANANA  INNATE  PUSH
COMMANDS  ABBREVIATE  HARRASS  HOWL  WEIGHT  HEIGHT  SPARKS  SLEEP
RELEASE  SOULDRAIN  ENERGYDRAIN  FARSIGHT  FREEFLOAT  FROSTSHIELD
INSOMNIA  REFLECT  SHADOWSLIP  SOLIDITY  STABILITY  STAUNCHBLOOD
ARROWENCHANTMENTS  ARCHERY  QUIVER  ARROW  BOW  "CREATE GOLEM"
"RELEASE GOLEM"  BEACON  "DISPEL MINOR"  ROBOT  "CHARACTER SELLING"
REPLY  VT100  BARDSONGS  PAGER-OFF  BEEP  ANSI  RAGE  BATTLECRY  FRENZY
CRAZEDASSAULT  "BLOOD FURY"  RETREAT  "ANIMATE DEAD"  SLIP  HEADBUTT
FORAGE  BINGO  REALKILL  PINGPONG  LAG  ALIGNMENT  PLATINUMSMITH
MORGUE  TOGGLE  RENAME  PASSWORD  TASTE  SIP  HOME  DAMAGE  MOB  GL
TELL  GTELL  SAY  EMAIL  "CLAN HALL"  "CLAN TOTEM"  "CLAN VAULT"
"CLAN PRICES"  "CLAN GUARD"  "CLAN TAX"  CDEPOSIT  CBALANCE
CWITHDRAW  NOTAX  WWW  WIMPY  DC++  BUILDING  COMBAT  CANTQUIT  PKILLING
MOTD  STORY  AUTOEAT  CLANS  CLEADER  OUTCAST  ACCEPT  CPROMOTE  CTELL
KI  "KI PUNCH"  "KI SENSE"  "KI BLAST"  "KI STORM"  "KI PURIFY"
"KI SPEED"  "KI DISRUPT"  "KI STANCE"  "SHIELD BLOCK"  TRACK  BEE
"CREEPING DEATH"  "HERB LORE"  "CALL FOLLOWER"  "FOREST MELD"
ENTANGLE  FELINE  NEW  "NEWBIE EQUIPMENT"  "NEWBIE MONEY"
"NEWBIE COMMUNICATION"  "NEWBIE AREAS"  RECALL  SWITCH  RULES  MP
ROLL  ARCHIVE  ALIAS  EMOTE  SOCIALS  ARENA  ARB  CONVERT  RIPOSTE
MARRIAGE  RESTRING  BROWNIE  CLASSES  DONATION  RACE  HUMAN  ELF
DWARF  HOBBIT  PIXIE  OGRE  ORC  GNOME  TROLL  SKEWER  BLINDFIGHTING
VITALSTRIKE  HARMTOUCH  "GLOBE OF DARKNESS"  "IRON ROOTS"  SUMMON
GUARD  "BLADE SHIELD"  DOUBLE  TRIPLE  SKILL  LEARN  REPAIR  VALUE
PRICE  SCAN  DEATHSTROKE  TAME  WIZLIST  CHANNEL  JUNK  DONATE  DEATH
NOTELL  IGNORE  PRAY  COUNT  DISBAND  PROMOTE  FOUND  WHOSOLO  WHOGROUP
HITALL  "PICK LOCKS"  SNEAK  JOIN  HIDE  LOOK  FILL  OPEN  CLOSE  NORTH
WHO  PENIS  ANON  NAME  TITLE  GIVE  SAVE  INVENTORY  EQUIPMENT  WEAR
WIELD  PROMPT  SCORE  REPORT  AUCTION  SHOUT  DREAM  GOSSIP  TRIVIA
INFORM  LFG  WHISPER  ASK  LOCK  UNLOCK  EAT  CONCENTRATION  FREEDOMS
PLATINUM  GOLD  BANK  KILL  AMBUSH  KICK  BASH  BERSERK  STUN  REDIRECT
RESCUE  STEAL  PSTEAL  BACKSTAB  DUALBACKSTAB  EYEGOUGE  DISARM  TRIP
DODGE  PALM  STALK  CIRCLE  EAGLECLAW  PARRY  "DOUBLE WIELD"  CAST
DROP  ORDER  LIST  BUY  SELL  RENT  WEATHER  READ  REMOVE  "NEWBIE SHOP"
PLAYERSHOPS  IWANTAPLAYERSHOP  MAP  PRACTISE  EXITS  LEAVE  ENTER
TIME  BUG  IDEAHELP  GET  PUT  BOARD  NEWS  SLEEPING  POUR  GRAB  FOLLOW
FLEE  REIMB  SPAM  THIRST  REGEN  "CONTROL WEATHER"  INFRAVISION
HASTE  "DISPEL GOOD"  IMPLEMENTOR  GUILD  INFO  WHERE  GAIN  LEVELS
BRIEF  !    CONSIDER  EXPERIENCE  GROUP  SOLO  QUAFF  RECITE  USE  ARMOR
TELEPORT  BLESS  BLINDNESS  "FULL HEAL"  "POWER HARM"  "CREATE FOOD"
"METEOR SWARM"  "WIZARD'S EYE"  "SOLAR GATE"  "HEROES FEAST"
"HEAL SPRAY"  "GROUP SANCTUARY"  "GROUP RECALL"  "GROUP FLY"
"ACID BLAST"  "LIFE LEECH"  "VAMPIRIC TOUCH"  "TRUE SIGHT"
FIRESTORM  PARALYZE  HELLSTREAM  "CREATE WATER"  "CURE BLIND"
"CURE CRITIC"  "CURE LIGHT"  CURSE  "DETECT EVIL"  "DETECT GOOD"
"DETECT INVISIBILITY"  "DETECT MAGIC"  "DETECT POISON"
"ENCHANT WEAPON"  HEAL  INVISIBILITY  "LOCATE OBJECT"
POISON  "PROTECTION FROM EVIL"  "PROTECTION FROM GOOD"
"REMOVE CURSE"  "REMOVE POISON"  SANCTUARY  STRENGTH
VENTRILOQUATE  MORON  "BAD SANTA"  CHAIN  "WORD OF RECALL"  "PORTAL"
"CHARM PERSON"  "MAGIC MISSILE"  "RESIST ENERGY"  "RESIST ACID"
"RESIST FIRE"  "RESIST COLD"  "BLUE BIRD"  ATTRITION  "SUN RAY"
"WATER BREATHING"  "STONE SHIELD"  "STONE SKIN"  "SENSE LIFE"
EYES  DROWN  "LIGHTED PATH"  "RAPID MEND"  "LIGHTNING SHIELD"
"ACID SHIELD"  FIRESHIELD  "POWER HEAL"  CAMOUFLAGE  "BARKSKIN"
"GREATER STONESHIELD"  "CHILL TOUCH"  "BURNING HANDS"
"SHOCKING GRASP"  "OAKEN FORTITUDE"  "LIGHTNING BOLT"
"COLOUR SPRAY"  IDENTIFY  NOBITS  FIREBALL  EARTHQUAKE
"DISPEL EVIL"  DEBILITY  "CALL FAMILIAR"  DISMISS  "CALL LIGHTNING"
HARM  FEAR  REFRESH  FLY  "CONTINUAL LIGHT"  "KNOW ALIGNMENT"
"DISPEL MAGIC"  "CURE SERIOUS"  "CAUSE CRITICAL"  "CAUSE SERIOUS"
"CAUSE LIGHT"  FLAMESTRIKE  SHIELD  WEAKEN  "MASS INVISIBILITY"
"WHISTLE SHARP"  "IRRESISTABLE DITTY"  "TRAVELLING MARCH"
"BOUNTIFUL SONNET"  "INSANE CHANT"  "GLITTER DUST"
"SYNCHRONOUS CHORD"  "HEALING MELODY"  "STICKY LULLABY"
"REVEALING STACCATO"  "FLIGHT OF THE BUMBLEBEE"  "JIG OF ALACRITY"
"NOTE OF KNOWLEDGE"  "TERRIBLE CLEF"  "SOOTHING REMEMBERANCE"
"FORGETFUL RHYTHM"  "SEARCHING SONG"  "VIGILANT SIREN"
"ASTRAL CHANTY"  "DISARMING LIMERICK"  "SHATTERING RESONANCE"
"FANATICAL FANFARE"  "DISCHORDANT DIRGE"  "CRUSHING CRESCENDO"
HELP  "ARMOR CLASS"  MANA  ATTRIBUTES  INTELLIGENCE  WISDOM  DEXTERITY
CONSTITUTION  "HIT POINTS"  META  MOVEMENT  TICK  LINKDEAD  LINK
COMPACT  SAFE  CONSENT  CORPSE  AREA  CREDIT  SUBSTITUTE  SLIP  LAY
"FOCUSED REPELANCE"  SAVINGTHROW  CINFO  "SKILL QUEST"  SETUP  SING
INSTRUMENT  "WEAPON TYPES"  WHIPPING  LIGHT  DARKNESS  AUTOIMPROVE
SPECIALIZATION  "TWO HANDS"  UNIQUE  NOTRADE  "EQUIPMENT FLAGS"
"ITEM FLAGS"  MONK  CLERIC  "MAGIC USER"  THIEF  ANTI-PALADIN  PALADIN
BARBARIAN  RANGER  WARRIOR  BARD  DRUID  "GROUP SKILLS"  FEROCITY
"BLESSED HALO"  "VISAGE OF HATE"  TACTICS  "MAGIC RESISTANCE"
"KI AGILITY"  DECEIT  "QUEST SKILLS"  "HYPNOTIC HARMONY"
"HOLY AURA"  BULLRUSH  "VAMPIRIC AURA"  SLANG  "GETTING STARTED"
KEYWORDS

#
"HELPFILE EDITOR KEYWORD LIST" "HELPFILE EDITOR KEYWORDS" 

The following is a list of helpfile keyphrases that is useful only for
helpfile editors:

"NULL: HELP IMPERSONATION WAS NOT SHOWING UP, I ASSUME BECAUSE" (1st topic)
"HELPFILE EDITOR GUIDE"           (3rd from last topic)
"HELPFILE EDITOR KEYWORDS"        (last topic - this topic)

For all public keywords, use help KEYWORDS

#~
